I think one of the challenges for the labs is that all they see are the limitless potential as opposed to living at the edge of where does it translate into economic value.
With these numbers, the ones that leap out to everyone are the over 100% growth in the U.S., the rule of 145 and guiding to 71%.
And just the underlying dynamics of that, you would think that the most interesting thing is just the truly end-of-one nature of these numbers.
We focused on things that actually transform the world, and the current environment is actually being transformed by the Palantir platform.
Although there's a wide view out there in the world that AI slop is going to take over the world, our clients, especially our lasting primordial infrastructure industries, know this is not the case.
They buy our product, despite the fact we have 70 salespeople.
A normal company of our size would have 7,000.
Only seven of our salespeople actually even really sell.
The appearance of software working is not software working.
The unique way in which this company is being run, the unique way in which the way we built the products, the unique way in which we're willing to be non-memetic.
When the whole world said software had to be worthless, we built platforms that worked.
When the whole world said you could not extend it with FDEs, we went and built FDEs.
We stuck to our guns.
And what did we get?
We got these results.
And I think if you just look at the results, how can a company grow 100% in the U.S. with functionally a non-existent sales force?
With the same number of people, same company, same people, extenuated products, it's all being extended.
Now the new version is AI slop and proving that they're wrong with our results.
This is an incredible quarter, and I'm very proud of this.
Well, it's a massive tailwind for us because we've always been counter-positioned against this sort of legacy thin software that kind of was built by and execute a playbook that's built around rent extraction and no outcome delivery.
We're not trying to make you the same as every other person.
We're trying to figure out what makes you different.
How do we express your business strategy through the software platforms and products we build?
The other counter-positioning is against AI slop.
We are focused on enterprise autonomy, not on dazzling demos.
We have in the ontology the no-slop zone.
The ontology is the body to the AI brain.
Your agents can go nowhere without ontology.
We see that even internally at Palantir where we've gotten rid of legacy software like CRM, built it very quickly on top of our platform to a user experience that our users love.
You know, almost every single highlighted example of AI that actually is producing results in the U.S. is actually Palantir by Palantir because the theory of how you do AI and the practice in the enterprise are just radically different.
And they look the same to non-technical people, but they do not look the same to practitioners, whether you're on the battlefield or whether you're an insurance company or whether you're a hospital or whether you're a manufacturer.
What they discover is the reality of doing this requires a platform like Ontology and currently executed on top of Foundry with FDEs.
And currently that combination is available from one company, and that is us.
My question is, how do you balance between going after government deal and then commercial deal?
Can you talk about that balance?
Because obviously there's more demand than supply in terms of relative, in terms of Palantir.
Thanks.
The reality of how Palantir works is we always provide, we position and prioritize the U.S. warfighters over everything else.
When we believe or know because of our proximity that the U.S. warfighter is in danger, we put the whole company against it.
It is not always the way in which one should do this, but it is how we do it.
We 100% prioritize this nation's security over any other variable.
That also interestingly gives us leverage because we go to the government and one thing people don't believe is we're like, look, this doesn't work the way you think, or this kind of execution will not lead to success.
By the way, we tell commercial clients, I tell commercial clients all the time, we are highly monogamous in the way we work.
We are not trying to make you into a commodity.
That said, our biggest problem currently is demand in the U.S.
I believe we will have 100% growth in the U.S.
is that we just cannot meet demand.
If you want slop, you can go here.
Probably, I should be on TV explaining to people why the models are actually only useful on a platform,
why the use cases platform companies are talking about are actually in Palantir,
why the cost and token, reduction token price is exactly what we predicted,
why our clients actually are asking, can I have a cheaper model since they seem pretty similar?
I'm going to do three questions today.
Number one, when AI started, you guys, you have some customers that wanted to do it their way.
What's happening right now with the AI labs getting into enterprises?
Like how many customers understand that value?
Or how many are the niche customers that like understand it and are actually advancing faster?
But you also have some that are still like just, I don't know, trying with just Anthropic, Gemini, like OpenAI.
They all have enterprise solutions now.
Alex, you mentioned talent.
How easy or hard is actually to get the right engineers to keep being able to incorporate all that to the outcomes that you are looking for?
And the second one on defense, you got a good call out on Maven in the presidential budget request.
How much of that growth depends on that budget being appropriated and how much you can actually keep growing if we were to see an extended, continual resolution?
The talent question is, Palantir is famous for having the best talent over a very long period of time.
Look, it's a super competitive environment.
I think most, the whole world wants to either work a Palantir or a lab.
The thing about being at Palantir is it's a very high pressure, very unique environment where we need people who are willing to do things that are different than anyone else.
I am now personally sitting across recruiting.
I'm particularly interested in neurodivergent people of all kinds, people who are neurodivergent enough that they get up and come to this country and do important, valuable work.
And we see a lot of, yeah, and so like we're really, we find a lot of our allies have chosen to come to America and chosen to come to Palantir.
We like that.
But it is an ongoing battle.
I am pretty confident that we will continue to attract and retain some of the best talent in the world, and we're seeing a ramp up in that.
Yeah, on the defense side, it's been a very active period.
It's not just Maven and Titan.
There's also the work that we're doing on production across major weapon systems for the department.
On the AI lab side, the enterprise side here, you know, I think one of the privileged positions we live in is at the limits of what the models can do.
I think one of the challenges for the labs is that they, all they see are the limitless potential, as opposed to living at the edge of where does it translate into economic value?
It's essentially, how do I take Palantir and try to replicate that?
What we do is very unique based on how we've organized ourselves and the tension between FD and product development.
Mostly they come home to Palantir, you know, and they can just expose the market to their beautiful, shiny appearances.
And we'll just expose the market to how we will transform your enterprise.
That's how it's going to go down.
You can't have profit if you're not changing the dynamics of the partner you work with, meaning your customer.
And that's how Palantir gets it.
We're very comfortable in that zone.
Alex, as always, we have a lot of individual investors on the line.
Is there anything you'd like to say before we end the call?
Well, to individual investors and Palantirians who are also individual investors, being on the front line of important things is painful.
You get yelled at occasionally.
Many of the people yelling at you have no clue what they're saying.
Value your support and we value your defense of us.
We are defending you every day and that's in great part what drives these results.
And we are having some fun doing it too.
And hopefully you'll have some fun.
Thank you for your support and we will see you next quarter.