I like to win a lot, and I don't find a lot of satisfaction in coming in second.  Over the last decade, Dave Ricks led Lilly to become the most valuable healthcare company in  the world. Is 100 million patients possible? Today we have probably 20 million people in the  world, probably going to like 30 this year. We're just like scratching the surface on the volume  side. I think we're seeing growth acceleration with price cuts, so that can be a very big number.  Conversations with executives building tomorrow's great companies. For investors, buy an investor.  I actually like investor interactions because I think the questions either teach you  what the street is talking about that makes no sense, which is frequent, or like really good  questions where you're like, you know what, we need to be sharper on that. Very few companies have  stood the test of time like Eli Lilly. It is the epitome of durable. Which one of these layer  stage assets you think will be the biggest opportunity for Lilly? There's a lot of buzz on  Reditur Titan. I think there should be. I think that could be a very big drug. I like a Laurel  Lintide. You get almost 20% weight loss and almost no GI side effects. That could be a big product.  Yeah. Yeah. So, you know, offer choice, basically. And if it says Lilly on it, we're good.  I'm Mike Rockefeller, Co-Chief Investment Officer of Woodline Partners, and this is Inspired.  It's great to be here. It's your 150-year anniversary. That is just remarkable. Eli Lilly  is definitely the epitome of durable as we think about it. What do you think it is about Lilly? How has  the company been able to not just survive, but thrive for this many years? Yeah. It's a good and  important question, actually. And I think, of course, there's no straight line, you know, maybe like  investing, you know, but there's a couple of through points that have been pretty constant. And then I  think the other thing is the adaptability. But what are those through points? I think we've always had  a very strong scientific orientation. The company was founded on that idea. Colonel Eli Lilly was  purpose-driven. And he saw in the Civil War, he was a colonel there, you know, how most medicines were  like made up, you know, like there was no evidence, there was no quality. So he wanted to fix those  problems and be based on science. His first hire was a chemist, like not in the small C, but like a real  trained chemist to make medicines that actually do what they say. And that's, I think that's a  through line for us. We've invested in science probably more than most cumulatively over the  years. And that's not going to change going forward. I think the second thing is like the  type of employer we are. Like I think we tend to keep people a long time. And in a business with  pretty long cycles, I think that's an undervalued trait to actually see a full, you know, cycle of  a medicine, see failure and learn from it and iterate and improve. That's the core, I think,  to success. Most things don't work the first time. And if you're just chasing the next wave, I don't  think you actually really understand how the business works. And then I think, you know,  leadership and long-term focus kind of go together. We've only had, I think I'm the 12th CEO in the  history of the company. That's one less than Pope's in that period of time. And that gives a lot of  continuity and it allows the company, I think, to think longer term, which is critical in our sector  because, you know, if you're chasing trends or worried about financial management as a primary  outcome, you're kind of missing the point. It's an innovation business. And sometimes you have to  weather out storms. We've certainly done that. And like now things are going great. You've got to have  the humility to say that's not going to last forever. We'll be a little bit paranoid and think  about the next decade. So those have been consistent. But then, you know, adapting to the times,  to the science, to the methods, technologies, like that's important. And we've been at our best.  We've done that well. And when we've been down, we haven't done that well. So yeah, I think about  those things. And you're coming up on your 10-year anniversary as CEO? 10-year, yeah. It's been a  great run. Yes. It's been exciting. A lot's changed. I was thinking about it the other day because I was  like July of 16, I was named in the job. And where was the company? And like, where was the world?  That was like before the, you know, the first Trump administration, like a lot of things were  different. Yeah. But, you know, the company was in stable shape. We had gone through a pretty rough  time before I was on the lead team during that with our patent expertise and sort of dug deep and  kind of refound our soul, which was like organic R&D. And I think what we've tried to do during my  tenure is like, take like good and go to great, you know, and that's about tuning up the science  engine, being super competitive with people, projects, thinking about being at the edge of  things versus a laggard, speeding up R&D. Like that's kind of an old story for us now, but it's  still pretty sticky and true. We can run the drill faster than any scaled competitor and faster than  most biotechs. China's a new vector we can talk about. They're quite fast. So that's giving us  more motivation to go quickly, you know, turning like the teamwork in like common good feeling in  the company into like competitive edge. That's something I try to focus on. And then, you know,  external innovation has been a theme as well, like going outside, making smart bets and allocating  capital a little more aggressively. Where are you now in terms of R&D timelines versus industry?  I think in 2013 or 14, we started a project. So it was predated in my time was when John was CEO  to cut the time in half. And at the time we were like 11 years in clinic. That's from IND to FDA  approval on average. And the industry was like 10. The industry has come down to like eight, eight or nine,  and we're six and change. So we haven't quite halved it, but pretty substantial step up.  And we do look at like, is that stable across TAs? Did you just shift to faster moving things? Like  if you just do virology, you can go faster. And the answer is no. Actually, we materially sped up  our cardiometabolic stuff, our oncology stuff as well. And I think those have made the biggest  differences. So you're now the largest healthcare company in the world. And as we both know, a lot  of that value is in your incretin and obesity portfolio. There are a billion people in the  world globally with obesity. I read a report recently that said that there would be 4 billion people by  20, 35, which is just a staggering number. Probably doesn't include Lilly obesity medicines.  Right. That's the placebo arm.  Exactly. But just help us think about this from an investor lens. How many patients realistically  could be on a Lilly product for obesity? Yeah. I mean, it's obviously a question we don't know the  answer to, but we have some clues and I think some framing around that. So first, on the billion  number, it's likely to grow. I agree with that. I think what drives overweight and obesity,  it's abundance of food. And that's a wealth effect. But it is objectively true. There's a lot less  starvation in the world than in the past. And there's a lot more wealth, even over the last 50 years.  Both those things have changed very dramatically. And unfortunately, we evolved as organisms. Our  evolution is much slower than the speed of the world. And we evolved in a world of scarcity. We don't  really have that many defenses against abundant food to kind of keep us in a homeostasis. One of them  is, you know, incretins and GLP-1. So that's what we've harnessed. And that's why these have turned out to be,  I think, such good medicines. I think that the tailwinds here are, you know, the technology  itself. So like our oral medicine, the ability to produce at scale, safety data at scale. Of course,  price points is important. If we had a billion people times the current prices in the U.S., that  doesn't really work for the world. So they'll come down. We should expect that. But penetration will,  I think, far exceed the price points. And then, you know, the medicines will get better and more  customized to different things, whether it be convenience things like oral or monthly. People  like to talk about that. Or what your weight is to begin with and like your probability of getting to  a healthy body weight. Or maybe indications. Because although there's a big opening aperture on sort of  this preventative self-care kind of thing, and we should come back to that because I think this is  really the first use case that's really kind of shown that. I think there are other use cases, by the  way. But, you know, a lot of people get to medicine through the normal healthcare system,  which is like, I have a symptom and I see a doctor and then I am prescribed a medicine to address that.  And of course, incretins do that too. And that list will expand to, you know, inflammatory conditions,  mental health, other things. That will grow it. So I think, you know, we should think of it  approximating, on the one hand, maybe some big consumer markets. On another, maybe the biggest  medicine market, look at those together and say, okay, are they, is that close? One important note,  which I always run into with investors is, generalist investors always are like, well,  what's the persistence? As if we're going to get like the billion people forever, that's not a reality,  right? I think people use medicine episodically. And that's a normal thing we model in other disease  states. People miss that. So there's a question behind your question is, what's like the  prevalent number of people taking the medicine versus the possible? And I think that's the way  I look at the TAM here is, is there will be dropouts and drop-ins. Yeah.  Is a hundred million patients possible? I mean, you're obviously building the company now for the  next 10 years. You have to plan. So is that, is that even a number that's possible?  Yeah. Today we have probably 20 million people in the world, probably going to like 30 this year.  So that's certainly achievable. I think that in the developed markets, the kind of theoretical  use versus total is still in the low single digits. So, but if you look at something like  statins or beta blockers or ARBs and like chronic disease, you're getting into the twenties to forties.  So that's a probably a high end to what we'll achieve, but it's against a bigger denominator.  So that, that can be a very big number. Yeah. So there's a lot of focus on Zat Bowne and Manjura,  the key value drivers now, but you have a whole wave of assets that are, that are coming on here.  Orphaglipuron, you mentioned, Reditrutide, Alloralentide. Can you maybe just frame how you  see each one of those assets fitting into this therapeutic paradigm? So 20 years ago,  we launched the first GLP-1 and Xenetide by ADA. And, um, you know, I think if you asked us then  like, okay, did, was this like the master plan? Of course it wasn't. I think we had two insights  that kind of caused breakthrough. One of them was the idea that you could give more drugs. So  here's a natural pathway. There aren't too many things like that, where if you just give more,  you get a beneficial effect without a lot of detrimental effect. But this is one of them.  And we only could discover that when we got flat peak to trough medicines, you could dose up because  there's a tolerability for the side effects. If we just kept dosing up Xenetide, people would vomit  more. Like they wouldn't get the weight loss effects. So, um, you know, Trulicity and, and  Simoglutide explored that. The second big one was that it's more than one receptor. That GLP-1 is  important, but there's a super family here and they tend to be synergistic. And they also have  different like pharmacologic properties when you drug them. So GIP, of course, plus GLP equals  tersepotide. GIP actually tolerizes the GI effects and it has its own independent weight loss  effect, not as potent as GLP, but does something. And so you get this, you know, increase in efficacy  and actually decreasing in side effects. That makes for a great blockbuster. That's what Zep  Bound and Manjaro is. Um, but you know, amylin, which is what Allura-Lintide addresses, is another,  uh, kind of one of these super family that has been around a while. Actually, there was a marketed  drug for amylin some time ago from a company called Amylin, which is interesting story. But, you know,  it wasn't, um, focused on weight loss and it certainly didn't, similar story to Xenitide.  It had peak trough effects and other problems. Glucagon we've known about for a while. We, we  have marketed glucagon for decades for in an acute sense. What about chronic dosing? Now we can get  a lot of weight loss when we add that and there'll be others too. So I think this story will keep playing  out. I, we made that bet, you know, in the middle part of the last decade, right around when I started  that this probably isn't like a Keytruda situation where people hypothesize, oh, there'd be all these  checkpoint inhibitors for cancer. Turns out it was like maybe one other that, that works, right? CTLA-4  is okay, but it was PD-1. Here it isn't just GLP-1. And I think that's pretty clear at this point.  That's a happy fact for us because a while back we started building medicines against all these,  and our strategy was, look, if that is the, if that is the hypothesis, we best cover every square.  And we should use our skill in engineering the best drug-like properties for these medicines to do  that. And I think we can now look at it and say, okay, pretty much every one of these ideas that's  working, we have a medicine for. And with maybe one exception, we have the first one.  So that's, that's exciting. We'll see how adding those together, whether it be physically in one  medicine or kind of stacking them for different effects, what that does, but I suspect there'll be  a fair amount of appetite for them. One I wanted to drill in on is Red a True Tide.  Yeah. This is a unique situation. Coming soon. Yeah. There is a lot of buzz in Silicon Valley.  In the Bay Area. It's the epicenter of off-label Red a True Tide use.  It reminds me of the buzz around Trisepetide, but even more so. And I wanted to just understand,  you know, what, what is all the excitement about? What is it about that profile, why people think  this will be such an important product? Well, more, I mean, if you, it's a triple agonist and  I think people are, you know, kind of probably mostly off-label ordering Chinese, so we don't  recommend this by the way, but you know, you can see in our studies, people lose a profound amount  of weight really easily. In fact, the number one dropout problem we have is people lost too much weight.  So they started obese. So I think you can now see sort of the end of the efficacy  curve in a way, like we probably don't need drugs that have more weight loss than this.  If we have dropouts for too much weight loss, we probably need strategies to taper and tailor.  The second thing is like the third ingredient. It's a really Trisepetide plus glucagon.  Glucagon has a very central obesity role. It really depletes fat in the gut. And there's people like  that. It's actually, there's a lot of data that visceral fat is kind of the worst fat you can have,  and that's the fat under your stomach wall. So that's quite good for health reasons. Liver,  kidney, heart failure probably is going to be a great medicine. But also people like flat stomachs and  when they lose weight, they want to feel lean. That's what this does. I suspect that's part of  it too. This drug though is not for unassisted self-care. I think it's got more side effects  that come with it. And probably low doses are safer, but I would recommend most people talk to their  doctor. And the good news is, the phase three studies will all be in hand within the next few  months. We'll submit to the FDA and maybe this time in a year, we'll have that approved. And  then people can get it, get the real thing, number one, and get it under supervision,  which would be a little safer. So you've been positioning this as  an over 35 BMI type product? Seems like it. Yeah. Now there's theories about  a category that doesn't really exist now, but people are sort of experimenting with, which is  the category of like, okay, either my starting body weight is lower or it was higher, but now it's low.  And what do I do to kind of keep that situation or, you know, have more slower?  So we're thinking about low dose regimens of different multi-acting incretins. That's one of them.  There's also studies on clintrials.gov of terzepatide plus alloralintide, which is like a triple  agonist without making a single kind of chemical entity. That could be interesting too. I think  there'll be needs for this in the future. And while orforgupron is going to be a great maintenance  medicine, some people will want different properties and that's what we can offer here.  Which one of these layer stage assets do you think will be the biggest opportunity for Lilly?  Well, there's a lot of buzz on red and true titan. I think there should be. I think that  could be a very big drug. But if you look at the injectable space and I think, you know,  orforgupron is going to be a big drug, not because of the efficacy, but because of reach. You know,  it's going to be less expensive. We can market it to every corner of the world. It's pretty effective.  You know, if people want to lose 30 pounds, that's going to be a great solution. And that's  most people who want to lose weight. But, you know, the frontier of why did terzepatide do so  well against semaglutide? So it's an unusual situation where there's a first entrant market leader,  tons of momentum. And then three years later, we wake up and that, you know, we have a 70 share,  they have a 30 share. And probably if you subtract out the payer stuff they did, it'd be probably 80-20.  Why? Well, because the drug dominates that drug. We did a head-to-head. You can look at the data.  It's both easier to take, less side effects, and markedly more effective. So I think if we can move  both of those lines, you'll get better drugs and better selling drugs. So retaxutide,  more effective, probably giving up a little bit on tolerability because glucagon has that property.  I like aloralintide because I think it approximates, I mean, the data we showed is a little better than  GLP-1 with amylin. That's interesting by itself. And an important note is aloralintide is not like the  other amylins, which are kind of this, there's a receptor in that family that they all hit that  also is shared with another protein. And that causes some GI. That's the calcitonin receptor.  We pushed that out. We dialed that out. So you just get sort of like a pure selective amylin inhibitor.  And you get almost 20% weight loss and almost no GI side effects. That feels like a very appealing  value proposition. And not a bunch of titration because you don't need to titrate into the side  effects. That could be a big product. So the good news is we don't have to care which one gets really  big. I think our focus is really about, okay, get more choices out there. Deepen the depth chart on  indication use because still medical use is a primary way into this market. Build out our consumer  capability because self-care and prevention is a real thing. And as seems unlikely to have broad  coverage in most markets for a while, just because they afford a billion healthcare and people are  animated to do it anyway. So that's fine. And then, you know, um, offer choice basically. And if it says  Lily on it, we're good. Speaking of choice, some of your competitors are developing a once monthly,  uh, some are trying to go longer. Where are you with a once monthly and how important is that to have?  I think our strategy is, uh, you know, something on every square. So we definitely have that idea.  Um, sometimes the standards are different, you know, so like I get the question of like, well,  why didn't you develop terseptide in a snack formulation? That's the technology  Novo uses for the Regovi pill. And it's because for us, like the, the profile wasn't good enough.  Um, I think the convenience factors, if, if the oral is really about convenience and if you make  it inconvenient oral, what are we doing? So we, we took a different strategy. Um, that doesn't mean  we won't try that at some point for oral, but I think for us, that technology needed to improve a  little bit. Same for monthly. Um, I think if we have yet to see a day by day PK curve from any of these  monthlies, and I suspect there's a reason, is they're not monthly. That you can lose weight  during a month, but in effect, you're sort of going two and a half weeks or your half-life might  be 10 or 12 days. I mean, some of them have published the half-life. So, you know, by the  time you get to day 30, you're down to like 20% of the original dose and then you re-dose and you're  going to get a little more weight loss, side effects again. And the key for the weeklies,  semaglutide and, and dulaglutide was flat. Like, because then you can actually  tolerize and titrate. If you're reliving that curve every time, I think you get more GI  and then you're in back to that efficacy tolerability curve, you're sacrificing some  efficacy because you're not really effectively dosing therapeutically the whole month and you're  restarting tolerability, uh, every first of the month. So not ideal. So we'd like a flatter profile  that could last a month. That said, you know, we've got ideas similar to the ones that you've  seen. We just don't choose to disclose everything and we're working on other solutions that would be  flatter. Um, you have to ask like, okay, you said longer, like what are the benefits of like  spreading out dosing? And I think there is a diminishing return anyway. Certainly monthly is  probably better than weekly. Is two months better than one month? I mean, not really. If you look at  other markets is three months better than one, maybe marginally six months better than three. Uh,  I think you're starting to get, um, where the other properties will dominate that sort of  increment of convenience. One other area that is really interesting is these areas outside of  obesity, immunology, green health. Yeah. What are you most excited about? Where can  anchortons really play a really big role there? I think those two are super fascinating. There's a third,  which, you know, it's very hard to do studies and I'll touch on it. So, you know, immunology is here  now. We published data actually this last weekend at the dermatology conference of TOLTS plus ZEP bound.  And, you know, that effect size, which by the way, uh, you get the ACR, uh, 20 benefit on  psoriatic arthritis. You get the PASI 50 improvement way before the weight loss. So, and you can see this  with like CRP, which dives within a week or so. Uh, so there is this like other mechanism happening.  It definitely is an anti-inflammatory and it's a pretty good one. Look at retatutide and OA pain.  That had more than four point shift in this Womack score we used to measure pain. That's the biggest  shift ever recorded in OA pain. So these are really good anti-inflammatories. I think that story is  going to continue to play out. What people haven't figured out is like branded inflammation drugs are  super expensive. So how do you value capture in this space and what's the right combinations? But,  you know, that'll get figured out and hopefully we're the ones who figure that out. Um, and then  brain health is even more fascinating. We don't actually know all the mechanisms as well. There's  theories on like brain metabolism, right? So that's a real thing. But, you know, you saw a couple big  studies from our competitor with the evoke program and Alzheimer's and you did get movement of biomarkers,  but no change in outcomes. Was that the wrong setting, the wrong time point in that disease process, the  wrong disease? We don't know, but you know, there's more risk here for sure is what I'd flag. But the  promise of changing dementia, we're more bullish on vascular dementia, which is a more of a pure  cardiovascular disease, causes a lot of dementia, compounds other dementias. Um, you know, you look at, uh,  kind of hedonic behavior things like smoking and drug abuse, even gambling, online shopping,  there's these like anecdotal reports. Those are all, you know, opportunities, uh, to look here.  And we've got some studies going in these spaces already, um, phase two primarily. And then to me,  the one that would be, what would really be a home run, not just economically, but like moving human  health pretty dramatically forward are these neuropsych conditions. We have really no good explanation for  this. But when you look at large databases in retrospect, you see big shifts, big,  like the VA study was the biggest one, but in schizophrenia, bipolar and major depressive disorder,  very big shifts in outcomes for people who happen to be on, on GLP-1s and, um, have these conditions.  That's worth noting. And we better figure that out. So we're looking at that as well. Cancer is the one,  just the teaser at the end. And it's just hard to study cancer prevention, but probably these are  not treatments, but preventatives. There's a lot of use in breast cancer already, mostly because  estrogen blockers cause weight gain. So it's more like a symptom management tool oncologists are using.  But I'd be personally surprised if we don't wake up in five years and see cancer surveillance rates  dropping in a number of cancer types because of uses. Now, proving that and getting an indication,  that's a tough proposition, but the studies have been done the other way where you look at,  you know, cohort match groups that have obesity and those that don't and cancer rates  are quite a bit higher in obese populations. So that would be great news as well.  Let's talk about selling because, um, this is getting really interesting with Lilly Direct.  Yeah.  So you launched this in January of 2024 and it is now a big part of your obesity business.  Yeah. It's like a third of all obesity in the United States is Lilly Direct.  I'd love to just understand where you see this going. Cause it seems, you know,  really fascinating and a real shift in how we are distributed.  Like I said earlier, I think, you know, this was one of these like perfect, I guess what in,  in the Bay area you'd call product market fit, right? That's like,  which we a little bit stumbled into, but we had some clues. Um, you know, I think though,  five years ago, there weren't many large manufacturers talking about like selling  directly to consumers. In fact, like funny story, my predecessor, we had like a series of meetings  in this room, um, in that period before, um, he left and I, I officially started, but I was named  and he's like, I have like a list of lessons. And one of them was like, never be in retail.  Literally said that to me. And it's like, why? Well, because, you know, you, you have all this like  apparatus you have to build, um, to deal with the variety of complaints and, you know, knowledge levels,  et cetera. But I disagree with that conclusion. Actually, I think there's been huge benefits  for us. So of course we've reached more people and sold more. That's great. That will continue  and we'll grow. We've launched by the way in the UK, that's off to a commanding start. I'd say  we'll introduce, I was just in China here, you know, China internet world is different,  but we have a couple of partners and like a store within a store, Lily direct like on JD and Ali and  pretty impressive start. So, you know, I think this is a universal thing. It's not just a US  shopping phenomenon. And we've gotten so much better at understanding consumers because you have  this first party real time interactions. What are people buying? What are they complaining about?  How do we learn about how to use our medicines better and inform consumers? I think that's so  good for the company's competitiveness longterm. I think investors are intrigued by stickiness.  If you have that information, if you have a relationship with someone one-on-one,  do they stick around longer? Of course that needs to be proven, but the theory is there and it's  worked in other industries. And then, you know, I think not being reliant on third parties as healthcare  kind of rearranges itself has proven useful and a minimum having your own channel creates price  discipline, right? So you don't get excessive markups. You, you set up kind of a benchmark price  in the market that payers like insurers can expect, but so can consumers and it just sort of controls  that critical variable here. But also you have a route to market. And I think that's strategically  pretty important. I think also on the consumer side, discretion and sort of not my regular healthcare  system have not been a bug, but a feature. Most people with obesity have doctor shopped to get  someone to help them. So that means they've been told no, or just, you know, here's a diet sheet.  Why don't you follow the diet, you know? And they have followed the diet and it doesn't work.  I think that's the consumer perception. So getting out of that is actually a benefit.  And then of course, discretion, because people report stigma when they go to the pharmacy counter  and they're waiting and then they're dispensed ZEP bound and, you know, people roll their eyes.  They don't like this, right? And that's an unfortunate fact of our society that people view  obesity often as a personal failing, not a kind of a genetic predisposition and an environmental  situation we find ourselves in. And that's wrong. But I think those factors drive people to the  platform. And that again, those aren't just US factors. We see, you know, really sort of  geometric growth in many markets online. You have over 50% of your new prescriptions  for ZEP bound going through this channel in the US. Where do you see this business going?  What percent of obesity scripts will go through this channel?  I think in the end state, it'll be meaningful. I don't know if it'll be stable at that rate.  I'm hopeful actually that insurance coverage in this sort of medical route will grow more.  And probably the consumer piece is going to be, you'll see more switching. It'll act like consumer  products. You'll see loyalty. Yes. But also trial and error. You know, I think it's going to be a  little bit different than what we're used to in sort of like a chronic med that sort of  takes seven years to get to peak. And then there's lots of carryover. We can value that. We understand  that. I think this will be a little bit different, but not worse different, just different. I think we  can also drive early adoption in a very significant way in this channel. And I suspect that's a global  thing. In fact, there are some markets where that medical channel is even more choked off,  more broken, and will probably have a higher proportion online. I would expect outside the  US, you'll see more business than in the US in terms of self-pay. And that's a good diversification  thing for us. And it's good for those consumers who like, if they went to their doctor, they wouldn't  get the medicine. They can use telehealth, they can buy it online, they can make decisions about their  own health. I do think, I alluded to this earlier, that this is a capability that can service well in the  future. I don't want to jump to this, but in my time in the industry, in addition to working on  more preventative interventions, which the industry is shifting that way, the drug technology has  improved a lot to do it. So if you don't have a doctor around to monitor side effects and carefully  titrate doses, et cetera, it's difficult to think about this. But if you had therapies that were very  infrequent, that were really preventing disease, and yet the person had no symptoms,  that's like a perfect lineup. And you think about technologies like sRNA, which are like so pristinely  targeted and very infrequent, and often being developed for chronic diseases in a preventative  setting, that's a great use case for this as well. And if you have enough volume, I mean, some of these  these new modalities, people always think about orphan or specialty. I think the first big medicines  using RNA silencing were like you had to inject into your spinal column for very rare congenital  conditions. But if you think of something common like LP a reduction, which is like probably a third  of all adults on the planet, are you really going to get a high price point even if you have only maybe  10% penetration? Is that the right model? Or should you try to reach the vast majority of those and lower  the price points? COGS isn't really an issue here. And do it in a direct way, kind of outside of the  health system payment. And that seems like a pretty viable idea to us. So we're looking at that in a  serious way. And building the capability around obesity, it's sort of the perfect use case now,  but I think there'll be other ones. What do you need to do to add to this  Lilly Direct program to make this an even more valuable asset for the company?  Yeah. Automation, globalization. You know, right now, if you knew how we built this thing,  you'd be like, wow, that's not really how software companies build go-to-market e-commerce engines.  It was very duct tape bailing wire on the first instance. We're sort of in version 2.0. It's better,  it's smoother. Like we have integrations into e-prescribing systems across the country,  and it's, you know, need like a lot of paper or phone calls. We have auto renewal, which is like  an SMS message consumers get. They click like three buttons and the box shows up in two days.  So we've really worked on that, but it's not Amazon. You know, it's not best in breed e-commerce,  but it can be. So we need to continue to invest in that and we'll get there. We're making some moves  this year to kind of up that game. And then, as I said, you know, we sort of relearned this lesson  when we launched Manjaro, which is the name for Zetbound. We just have one name outside the U.S.  in all these other markets like Brazil or, you know, Germany, and they have their own telehealth  environments and those players aren't as sophisticated or organized. So we need to get  in those markets and kind of upgrade that. And we'll do that.  One topic of concern from investors is price, these GLPs. And I think there's a concern that  the prices will just keep falling and there's no floor. What would you say to that?  Yeah, I think there are competitive effects, right? That's for sure. I think there's like two potential  bets we're making and people can bet against that. That's what investors do. One is that, you know,  we're just like scratching the surface on the volume side. And unlike other drug markets,  which you and I have valued, you don't really have elasticity in pricing. So price down equals cash  flow down, one to one. That is not what happens here. Actually, I think we're seeing growth acceleration  with price cuts. So that's acting more like a consumer market. Now, is there a logical point where  you should not be doing that? Yes. We're a pretty disciplined actor. I think we've studied this and  we understand consumer choices and preferences. But so far, I think the move from like $1,000 a month to  like $350,000, mostly positive for us. By the way, we were already launching in diabetes at about that  net price anyway. So, you know, if you look at gross to net appropriately, it's not really a price  concession. It's like a volume expansion in the cash channel, which is probably good. Can it go too  low? Yes. But I think what prevents that is innovation. On the one hand, newer things typically get  priced higher. If you look at unit pricing in drugs, there's like a minus seven on every chronic drug  for the 10 years I've been doing this job. But prices on average are going up. Why? Because you have  innovation launching at premiums and then it gets on that decay curve. So if we can keep innovating,  a Laurelintide, Ritatratide or Forglupron and post up higher starting points over the innovation that  day, it has to be justified. I think you can see a price, more of a price stable picture as the mix  grows and options are presented. Will there be like a generic segment? Sure, that's going to happen  to semaglutide first. And we'll learn about that in some overseas markets in the next couple of years  and eventually in the US. And we'll have to have enough difference versus that to justify the price.  Sure. That's not a new factor in our industry. What is new is that elasticity and the rate of innovation.  There's one other constraint, which I think our competitors should take note of, which is if you  have pipeline bets stacked against this, you don't want price erosion. That's not a great idea, right?  Because you have to compete with the thing you just did. So we'll see if they're paying attention to  that. We pay attention to that. The FDA recently came down pretty hard on  HIMSS for attempting to come out with an oil version of Hugovi. Where are we in the battle between  innovators, compounders, the FDA? I don't know. I'm honestly shocked this has gone on this long.  It really makes zero sense. And of course, there's an industry point of view is put on the table like,  yeah, it's cannibalizing some of our business. Not that much, actually. But if we look at maybe  there's a couple hundred thousand people on compounded terzepatide, maybe a few 10,000 on  ratatatide mostly in San Francisco, that's not changing our EPS number on a quarter to quarter basis.  But it does open a policy door that's kind of frightening. And frightening for our business  model, of course, like if you don't have an incentive to invest in R&D, if someone can just  copy what you made without paying a royalty, a license, or having to do the work themselves,  that's not fair, number one. Number two, it'll just destroy the incentive to invest in innovation.  I think it's a terrible outcome for our country and for the world, actually. But even for like  for consumer, like why do we have an FDA? It was, you know, more than a hundred years ago,  food, drug and cosmetic act. Why? Because the very reason Lilly was founded, there were too many  fake snake oil things. We're back there now. And when we test stuff, which we buy online, which we do,  a meaningful percentage of the stuff does not contain terzepatide. Okay. And then those that do,  often there's mistakes in the amino acid sequence. So it's not, it's like terzepatide-like. We recently  published a study that if you commingle it with vitamin B12, which is a very common thing to do to  skirt around the legalities of compounding, it actually forms a new complex molecule that's not  terzepatide. Never been tested in man, although, except for the people taking it today, they're testing it.  This is actually crazy. And it's not the, what we should be doing. And you understand well what we  have to do to get a medicine that's safe and effective. Most public does not. I mean, we,  the terzepatide is, I think, series number 7,023, which means we've made 7,022 other versions of  terzepatide we threw away to get the one with these properties. Do you really want to mess with  that? Like that seems like a nutty proposition. Now there's noises that this will be closed off,  but at the same time, we hear noises that like peptides that are not proven to do anything may  be unleashed through this channel. Let's see what plays out. I think we just have to keep  communicating. And honestly, the only reason this exists is pricing. And I feel sorry for those  consumers who think they're getting the same thing at half the price. They're not. But as our offerings  get better, as coverage gets better, I think this gets reduced. There is a big expansion in access  this year on the federal side, which is part of our MFN deal with the Trump administration. I think  that's going to be interesting to see what happens. There's $50. There's nobody using compounding who's  going to use compounding when they get $50 zip bound. That's not going to occur. So we'll see. That'll be  an interesting experiment to measure. Okay. Is it really just that? And I suspect that's going to  start the end along with hopefully some policy response from this administration.  Let's hope so. Yeah. Okay. Maybe shifting from obesity. What's the next big opportunity for Eli Lilly?  Yeah, we need to find it. Of course, we run a base business that is like pretty similar to the company  like when you first started following us, you know, you valued and that I took over. That's still going  and growing, you know, mid-teens actually. That's a good drug business. In fact, if we peel it out  ourselves, you know, I think you'd put it in the top three out there. It just gets overshadowed by this,  you know, sort of generational opportunity. And that makes sense. But our job is to keep that going  and grow it faster if we can. The most mature part of that franchise is oncology. We've got, I think,  more substrate in phase three now than ever. I think we have four phase three projects going right now.  And they're not against small things. You take like our oral CERD program. We've got a really key study  reading out in the next year in the adjuvant settings and before study for Mlumistrin. I think  that's a giant opportunity. Duration of therapy is very long. A surprising fact is that degraders seem  to be more effective than other modes of blocking estrogen. If that's true for Mlumistrin, that's a big  opportunity. We're building out some other capabilities. Of course, everyone's working on  the ADC platform as we are, but also, you know, radioligands, other things. I'm optimistic.  None of those are going to be drugs anything like the ones we just spoke about in terms of size,  but by historic standards could be quite meaningful drugs in the industry. And so I think we have to be  this in this like two mode method of like in that category, be the winner, even though that may mean  it's still a lot smaller than our leading category. I think brain health and neuroscience has the most  like upside potential in it, both because the amount of human suffering and the lower competitive  density. Lilly's got a long history there. We've got some important studies going. We've got more to  do. Actually, today we announced a deal with Syntessa, looking at this orexin pathway, which is very  interesting for awake and sleep. Maybe in some ways like a little bit of a corollary to GLP-1 because  here you have like this nodal pathway that has a lot of other disease impacts. Could be interesting if  the drugs are safe enough, if it turns out that overstimulating a natural pathway like GLP-1 turns  out to be useful and safe. But, you know, we need to look for those opportunities. Of course, you know,  neuropsych is huge on metanates still. And I've been saying that for like a decade, and we sort of  retreated from that like 15 years ago. Other than like ketamine, I don't know of any real step up  there. That's kind of sad because ketamine is not a new idea really. Maybe that changes. If it does,  we'd like to be a part of that. And those that can make for a very big category. So that one's probably  has the best chance of competing with our cardiometabolic franchise, at least in my tenure.  How about Alzheimer's?  Yeah, I'd put that in that one. So dementia, that's here and now. I mean, we're treating  people. That's pretty linear uptake. I'm encouraged by that, kind of like diagnostic drives use. So  that's our focus now. And of course, we have a prevention study running that has people with amyloid  positive, but symptom negative to see if we can reduce conversion to symptom positive. I think  that's a seminal study for the industry, actually. Because if that turns out to be true in this  neurodegenerative condition, there's a lot of parallels in Parkinson's and other things.  That could be a big category of drugs for the industry. And hopefully we'd be a part of that  growth as well. So we need that data, but that's exciting one too. I'd put that in the neuroscience.  Again, another thing that could get really big and help a lot of people.  Yeah. That's an interesting study. So these are in patients, pre-symptomatic to Alzheimer's.  Yeah. PTAU217 positive. We didn't even scan them. We're just blood tested. And so that's in the  noise of the signal. And then the question is, after a period of time, can you reduce the odds  ratio of converting to symptomatic? I think it's a very compelling value proposition for consumers.  Here again, maybe like a more consumer thing. It's preventative. It's walking well, people  with a precursor to the disease, amyloids signature for Alzheimer's. But we do know people have high  amyloid and don't ever develop Alzheimer's. But can we reduce those that do? And if we can,  that's a major breakthrough. Do you think the efficacy could be  better than what you saw in Trailblazer II in your symptomatic patients?  That's our hope, I think. Because if you look at the Trailblazer II study, no matter how you slice  severity, whether you look at like tau burn, which is the secondary protein of Alzheimer's, or age,  or symptomatology, so people are more advanced symptoms, if you go earlier and earlier in that  slice, the effect size gets bigger and bigger. And it sort of flies with the theory of amyloid,  that it is sort of the triggering pathway, and that it's not actually doing the direct damage like  tau is. But without amyloid, you don't get the tau accumulation. So it kind of makes sense with the  cartoons and the textbooks that we've read about. But you've got to prove it in the real world. That's  different than the compounding world. We have to do the study. And if it works, we would expect  quite a bit of use. You mentioned Syntessa. How has your M&A strategy  evolved now that you're scaling the business and we're going to continue to scale the business?  Yeah, it needs to evolve. I think we've, you know, when I started, it was sort of nascent,  I would say, occasionally. And we looked at stuff, the bias internally was internal over external.  There wasn't like a stood up motion to do this continuously. And part of that is, you know,  I think what John tried to do is really sort of reinvigorate our organic engine. That's a  necessary actually to be a smart buyer externally. So maybe this had to go in steps. What we did was  create a systemic motion. So we're every week huddled up on every data room, every deal in play,  many deals not in play. So we instigate deals. We like to trade in front of data.  We have ideas about what we're interested in that is not in our labs. So we made that a very  proactive motion and it's constant. But by definition, it's become more of a string of  pearls kind of approach. You can tolerate more failure that way. That's good because we can take  risk. We do a lot of deals. We did like 40 deals last year. That's a lot, way more than anyone else,  but we deployed like the 10th most amount of capital. So cheaper deals, but many of them.  Probably that cheaper part will change. Purely if we have a growth ambition, which we do,  I think we want to be priced like a growth stock. We don't want to get to some terminal state on GOP1,  which will happen at some point where the inflow of new patients equals the outflow when we stop  growing so aggressively and not have a path to growth. That feels, it's not defeat. We did a lot of  good, but that's not what we're going for. We're going for finding the next big things or a whole  series of bigger things that amount to more growth on top of that. And that's going to require external  innovation and internal. We just need more ideas. Internal probably scales a bit, but there's a lot of  data in our industry that scale drives inefficiency, not creativity. And so I worry a lot about that.  Moving forward there, we have different ideas there, but then, you know, we need to get smarter  about buying. So we'll open up the aperture therapeutically. That's one way without  changing the strategy, but probably lift up a little bit the price number. And by definition,  then this phase of development where we really scrubbed things down. Yeah. It's unusual because  you haven't, I don't think you've done a transaction over 10 billion since you've-  Loxo is the biggest. It was eight.  Eight. So size of deals could go up.  Syntessa's big for us. It's like six.  Yeah. I mean, look, as you know, in the drugs, it's a weird industry in a way because you have  maybe 20 pretty scaled legacy companies. Lilly's one of those, 150 years. The names we all know,  and those are almost, well, except for Lilly, they all trade like, you know, counter-cyclical,  you know, stable stocks basically. And then you have a pretty big gap in the middle,  and then you have like 500 biotechs. Probably 200 of them shouldn't be public.  But, you know, you have, there's only like 10 companies in the middle. It's less than the big  ones. It's weird. So there aren't that many like mergers where you'd say, okay, I'm getting a revenue  line and a marketed products that are that interesting to me. I think it's more like at  the top of that biotech thing. Where in the past, we did have a belief that if something's mature  enough that everyone can see it, it's probably hard to get some sort of value out of that transaction.  You're going to pay the prior investors. They like that. Woodline probably likes that when we do that,  but it's hard to create value for your shareholders that way. It's just tighter,  unless you have some big like commercial unlock or some other thing they screwed up and you can fix.  But, you know, we might have to look for more of those. And I think if we widen our therapeutic  aperture, maybe, maybe we'll find more. Makes sense. Does the Lilly direct channel  change your view on what you may look at? It does. Yeah. I think because if you say, okay, let's  not use therapeutic space, but use like, um, a different frame, like we have common medical  conditions where people use their primary care doctor, you have referred to medical conditions  like Alzheimer's today or oncology, where your primary care doctor to a referral, those markets  behave pretty differently, higher price points, a much lower volume. And then you might have this like  self-care prevention segment. Okay. So we looked at our business that way. We're kind of a leader in that  obesity. We're trying to make headway here. We're also a leader over here, but it's growing.  And so what else could grow it? There's a whole list of preventative things that are interesting  that need to get drugged. And if they get drugged safely, that could be great kind of portfolio  items for us. There's also kind of non-medical, not medically covered, but medically proven things  like in cosmetics that could be interesting where people are self-activating as well.  So we, to get there, you'd really have to have like one compelling idea. I think  the kind of list of like McKinsey decks that turned into real businesses is pretty low.  I think you need like a great drug and then you can, can enter. Um, so we're open to that idea too.  On a personal level, uh, true story. A couple of weeks ago, I was having a dinner  with a bunch of different investors and I sat next to a Lilly employee who I'd never met before.  And so I'd mentioned to him that you and I were going to be talking and I asked him, I said,  what do you want to know from Dave? Oh, great. Here we go. And he said,  I'd really love to understand what makes him tick. What, what inspires him? And I, I said, well,  awesome. Cause that's, that's the name of this podcast actually. So I have to ask you, you know,  what, what makes you tick? What, what inspires you each day? Yeah, it's a, it's a good question. I mean,  I think there's like a couple of layers to it. Um, I'm someone who probably I would be accused of  being like loyal to a fault. I have a, for whatever reason, like I, uh, I like the things I participate  in, I tend to stick with them a long time. And, um, I definitely feel that about Lilly. I've been  here 30 years and, um, that's something that I'm really adhered to making sure Lilly,  you know, carves out its place in the world and keeps it because I care a lot about the place.  Another thing is like, if you gathered around like our kitchen table with our, our kids are adults now,  now, but even now, okay, it was even worse now, you know, on a Saturday night and we broke out a board  game, you would have sworn like we hated each other. And we were, this was war. I'm a very competitive  person. Uh, this is one of my kids. So we, you know, we have fun with that. Cause you can kind of  simulate that. And then the game gets put away and you're all, it's all happy, but I like to win a  lot and I don't find a lot of satisfaction in coming in second. And that's a big like inspiration for me  is it's a competitive industry, but the competition doesn't just reward us. It actually has a much  bigger effect on our purpose. This is what we do. And that's the last piece is I kind of stumbled  into Lilly. I don't know if you know this story, but you know, I, I only worked here cause my wife  was going to med school in Indianapolis and we were fiance at the time. I'm like, I need a job. So  I'll go there and work for Lilly, worked in the BDM and a group for a couple of years. And I thought when  she, two years, she was going to graduate med school and then go to a residency somewhere and  I'd leave. She ended up matching here in Indianapolis. So I stayed, which was like a  pretty prophetic thing. And then it was five years here. And then that loyalty thing kicked in and  Lilly was great to me. Um, but early in my career, I worked on a business development deal  and the medicine that I brought into the company, we completed phase three. Then I went and launched  in the U S as the brand manager. And shortly after that, my own mother called me and said,  I was diagnosed with disease and I got this medicine and it has Lilly on it. And I think  if you work in this industry and you have those like personal moments where it's, I mean, you know,  objectively, yeah, we're improving health conditions, but when it actually helps someone  in a profound way that you care a lot about, like your mother, it's like, that's why we're here.  That's pretty good way to go through life is like doing that over and over again. And you just want more of  it. Like when you succeed at that, it's like, I want to do that more. Um, so that's a big driver.  That was a turning point for you. That just, that was like the lock in point.  I love the Lilly. I mean, I was surprised at what I found here. I was like, but the industry seemed  kind of underdeveloped, like sleepy and Lilly too. Um, so it seemed like a place where if you are good  at business, you can make a difference. And I started in business development. So I always had this  like external focus and it was great way to learn the industry. And I was excited by biotechnology at  the time, this was like 1996. So, you know, we're just getting monoclonal antibodies and like  waves of innovation were coming. And then the culture, I, you know, I thought the people were  smart and wanted to work hard. We were talking about the Midwest earlier, and there's a lot to  like about running a company in the Midwest, kind of no fuss, no mess. People just come to, like you  come to, it's still true. You come here, like, I don't know how many corporate America cafeterias  serve breakfast at scale, but we serve breakfast at scale. People come here early and eat breakfast.  I think that's an interesting thing. That's not that common in my, my estimation. So people like  to work here. They're proud of being part of Lilly. There's obviously a big halo in the community of  what this company has meant to the state and the city. And you tell your neighbors, yeah, I work at  Lilly. Uh, that's great. And then people come here and they try to live up to that obligation.  What's been the most difficult aspect of being CEO?  Well, you know, I think actually the jobs change a lot, even with me in it, like in the 10 years,  that we've become companies, big companies, especially have become this sort of place  people want to turn to for like truth and connection. And it's a little bit of a weird,  there's a guy who does a podcast like this. Um, and he writes for the Atlantic and he talks about  this workism. I think it's an interesting turn of phrase. It's like, it's kind of replaces your  sense of community outside of work. That's true. And so your employees demand, you take positions on  lots of stuff. And I don't like that. Like, I actually think a company has massive positive  spillover effects. I don't think intervening in like public policy per se is a, is one of them.  I think that's actually a problem. People should vote and they should, you know, guide society in  that way. I think that, um, healthcare and like drug pricing and all this is a mess. And it's hard  to be in the middle of that mess and sort of go forward. You can come off and hurt your company's  brand, you know, by being a jerk about it. You can also be so uncentered on it that like it is,  we do deserve reward for what we do. And what we do creates a huge amount of value in the healthcare  system. I would guess more than any other thing in the healthcare system. So maybe combined. So  we shouldn't apologize either. And yet a lot of the problems we have aren't even our fault. It's like  government rules and so forth. So you got to wait in, but it's, boy, it's painful. That's just  tough going. And it gets personal because you're the face of the company. Um, those aren't fun things.  Some people say like investor interactions, but I actually like investor interactions  because I think the questions either teach you what the street is talking about. That makes no sense,  which is frequent. Yeah. Or like really good questions where you're like, you know what,  we need to be sharper on that. Like it's a, it's a surface area to bounce ideas off of, but  you know, most CEOs don't get a lot of, so I actually liked that one, but yeah.  Yeah. Anything you would have done differently over these 10 years?  Sure. The longest list is like on the people side, like most of us probably in our judgment,  some people aren't perfect. Um, either moving faster on problems or who we brought in and then  didn't work. And you know, that's probably for managers. Like we all can relate to that. That's  probably one of the hardest things is like admitting you're wrong and you're kind of the last to admit  it when you have someone that's just not working out. Yeah. Those are, and then, you know, there  were some other tough situations that I won't go into here, but it's just like, you know, that,  that stuff's emotional and sticky. And no matter what level you are, whether you're that employee  sitting next to your dinner or mine, like that doesn't really change, you know, we've taken bets.  It didn't work. I don't regret any of those. That's part of the business. You got to take swings  and you don't get home runs unless you swing. Um, and you know, I think how we've run the business,  I'm proud of that. I don't have too many regrets in terms of the discipline and choices we've made.  This has been a great interview. Thank you so much at maybe to end it. If we're sitting here 10 years  from now, which, which would be great. I would love that. I'm sure this room will look exactly the  same in this way 10 years ago. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, but you're 160. Um, what do you want to have  accomplished at that time? I think there's like three big things. One is like make  inkertins, not like, like PD ones, prove the case out that this is more like antibiotics.  I often draw this analogy and people are like, why? But you know, antibiotics made modern medicine. It took  the focus of modern medicine really on treating acute disease poorly, um, and shifted the focus to  chronic disease. It made chronic disease possible. You can't even do surgery without antibiotics. And  Lilly was at the forefront of that. We marketed penicillin and vancomycin. Still the backbone of  hospital care was a Lilly invention. And I think GLP ones in this category, this is like for chronic  disease, the same thing. We can afford to talk about longevity because we're going to be able to solve  obesity. And I think that's a vision we have to have, but we need the runway to do it. If, you know,  generics come and wipes out the economic incentives, we won't see that. So, you know,  we've got to innovate faster so that we can keep the replacement cycle going and keep improving the  standard of care. The second thing is like build the rest of the business. We have kind of a gift here.  If we think the best capital is a Lilly R and D value in the industry, I think that has been the best  capital. Can we keep that going and can we make other diseases obsolete? And I think we have to try.  We also have to not have hubris. We need the courage to say, okay, we tried and failed and then we'll  be buying back a ton of stock for a while. But that's less satisfying, but the truth. But I think we've  got a three or four year window to sort of try that. And we're certainly going to flex into that.  The final thing is like the way Lilly works. We talked a lot about consumer. I think that's been  such a gift to us to like really learn about healthcare and not be so insulated. But I wish  for a company with like leaders and people that will take over when I'm gone that really own the  customer and love innovation. I think at the end of the day, that's what we do. We connect science  to people with problems. And if you can see both sides clearly and know both and make good decisions,  you know, then you can be a great leader in this in this industry and hopefully in this company. And  we just need more of those. Well, thank you. It's been an honor.  You've done such a great job for patients and for shareholders. So we really appreciate it.  Thanks. Appreciate it. Great to be with you.