Bringing up two frontier spotlights.
The first is Ben and Asher, two brilliant brothers.
Yes, they are.
Come on up.
Founders of swimming submarines.
Wait, no.
Wait a second.
Flapping airplanes.
And we're excited to hear about data efficiency.
Thanks so much.
Thanks, Konstantin.
All right, yeah.
It's really great to be here.
Thanks for having us.
We're very excited to tell you about
why the future is data efficient.
So let's get into it.
So first, I think introductions are in order.
My background, I spent three years in the PhD,
kind of deep in the kernel minds, writing very low level GPU
systems before helping to start Flappy.
And I also should say, I at one point
helped start an incubator called Prod that
worked with a bunch of companies that did well.
So that's also part of my background.
Cool, and so I'm Asher.
If you can't tell, I'm Ben's older, wiser, and slightly less
handsome brother.
I previously was also a Stanford PhD,
spent time at Cursor, Mercore.
And then lastly, our third co-founder is Aidan Smith.
He's a Teal fellow.
He's busy working right now.
But he spent three years supercommuting
between his college and Neuralink.
So he knows a lot both about the brain and also
about machine learning.
So before we get started in earnest,
I do want to clarify some confusion.
We launched the company three months ago.
We are very excited to have received a lot of inbound.
But a surprising amount of it has
been from the aviation industry.
You know, people trying to sell us things like runways,
like not runway in the venture capital sense,
like literal runways.
You know, airplane parts, wind tunnels, et cetera.
So I'd like to disclaim once and for all,
we are not an airplane.
We are an AI lab.
And hopefully, that will become clear
by the end of this talk.
OK, great.
So first, a quick outline.
In this talk, we're going to tell you about two things.
First of all, our thesis of why this is a really important
problem.
And second, we'll tell you a bit about our approach that fuses
both systems work and algorithmic work.
So first, on the thesis side.
So if we look at the current state of the world,
LLMs have gotten incredibly good at a couple
of really valuable tasks.
So for example, search, coding, together,
these are at least a trillion-dollar market that's
probably accessible here.
A big part of the reason why they've
gotten so good at these tasks, and this
is related to what Andre I think talked about this morning,
is that these are incredibly well-resourced
tasks in terms of the amount of data that's
available for them.
For search, this is basically the entire internet.
For coding, this is a big fraction of the internet.
Coding is also a very friendly environment
and that it's very easy to produce mountains of synthetic
data if you want to.
So when we talk about data efficiency,
what we're asking the question of is,
is it possible to get these kinds of capabilities
with much less data?
Intuitively, it seems like it should be possible.
Humans are able to become quite good at coding
with maybe 10,000 times or 100,000 times less data
on this than these current models take.
So this is kind of the core question.
And a reason why this matters is that if we
look towards the future, there's
a bunch of other domains of the economy
where there's much less data.
So for example, Jim talked this morning
about how in robotics, there's a ton of work
that has to go on to try to generate the data.
It's much more complicated than it is in coding and search.
In trading, there's only so much financial data.
Scientific discoveries, obviously, very little data.
But the potential there is sort of unbounded.
And most important of all is, of course,
the end-to-end toaster supply chain.
Now, the reason I bring this up is not because of what it is.
It's because of what it represents.
Namely, that there are tens of thousands of things like this
that really make up the broad economy.
And the broad economy doesn't just
look like search and coding.
It looks like a lot of things that are actually
really not well-resourced.
Yeah.
And so Ben's given you one economic reason
to believe that the future is data efficient.
I think a second claim is that compute is actually
easier to scale than data.
I mean, we know that flops get exponentially
cheaper over time.
And I think it's probably true that data is not
getting cheap as quickly as compute is,
although it is getting cheaper.
I think the second reason is that collecting frontier quality
is complicated.
The compute market is more homogenous
than the data market is.
Like Greg was telling us after GPT launched,
they could just try to buy all the compute.
And there's no centralized data purveyor.
If you want to go into the economy and collect
the long tail of tasks, you have to deal with regulations.
You have to negotiate with businesses about terms of use.
It's actually very annoying.
So I think if you could-- as a result,
if you can make a model that's 1,000 times more data efficient,
I think it'd be 1,000 times easier to deploy.
So those are two sort of economic reasons
that we think data efficiency is important.
The last reason is actually kind of philosophical.
I think that if you look at the world today,
there's not that many companies that can train AI models.
And part of this is because of centralization of compute.
But I think it's also because of centralization of data.
Like I've heard news about Neolabs who,
when trying to create new capabilities,
they literally buy out distressed bookstores
to find all the data they can find.
They go to rare libraries to find all the tiny niches of data
that you need to actually make a frontier model.
And I think in a world that's data efficient,
I think that companies can actually more broadly participate
in the AI revolution.
Like we heard earlier today that in the poll about what
the mode is in the AI world, the most common answer was data.
If that's true, then data efficiency
is the thing that actually enables broader competition.
So I think if you care about the shape of the world to come,
I think you really should care about data efficiency,
because it modulates who can actually participate
in which parts of the AI economy.
Cool.
So now we're going to talk about our approach.
So our goal is to design data efficient AI.
We design algorithms for this.
We're not going to talk about them, because they're our core IP.
But I will tell you about an important facet of our approach,
which is how we try to look in new places.
Like if you want new capabilities, where can you find them?
So our claim is that essentially,
if you want to develop new algorithms,
you should look at new primitives for interacting with hardware.
There's some set of things that GPUs can do efficiently,
and then there's a smaller set of things
that current frameworks like PyTorch, for example,
can actually express efficiently.
And that gray circle, we've seen a lot of research
into that circle.
We actually know what kinds of algorithms work.
But if you're looking for new capabilities,
you might want to look in these new places.
And that's where we live at flapping airplanes.
That's what we try to do.
And Ben will talk for a little bit later, for example,
about things like fine-gradeness, which
actually are hard to do under current frameworks,
but a GPU actually can do.
History suggests that this is a good bet for what it's worth.
I mean, a lot of the development of machine learning
over the past 15, 20, even 100 years
has actually been new primitives for interacting
with hardware, not necessarily designing new chips, which
is also important, but merely figuring out
how to squeeze more out of the existing technology
that has proliferated.
Yeah.
So I guess a bit of context.
In my PhD, I did some of this work
on early work on microkernels, which
was trying to make GPUs do weird stuff.
At Flappy, I would say that we are going further
in spiritually similar directions, namely trying
to kind of abuse the crap out of GPUs in ways
that haven't been done before.
This has been quite a lot of fun.
So I actually would recommend it if you like playing with hardware.
And I guess part of what I'm excited about in this talk
is that this is, in general, I think a fairly high little venue,
but I actually want to get into the weeds of some stuff,
because I think it's fun.
So if we look at how current systems work--
and this will be a little bit abstract,
but I hope that the class will come across--
what makes current machine learning frameworks easy to use
is that they synthesize a single-threaded programming
model out of very parallel processors.
So basically, when you write PyTorch,
you write matmul, and then attention, and then matmul,
and then rmsnorm.
And under the hood, there's all kinds of contortions
that happen where the software dispatches it in parallel
across a very parallel set of processors.
But nonetheless, to the programmer, this looks very natural.
But what happens if you want to run things that look like this?
Or maybe you want to run things that look like this?
All of a sudden, these kinds of things
are not easily expressed in current frameworks.
So one thing I'm just very excited to show a little teaser of
is our internal framework that we use,
which is built off a virtual machine
that kind of just takes over the whole GPU
and we just do everything we want ourselves on it.
In this particular case, this is not a real workload I'm showing.
This is kind of a stylized thing that is similar,
but is an example of something that is also
asymptotically inefficient to run in PyTorch.
This is a very small batch, kind of deeply pipelined,
hog-wild style training loop.
This is the kind of thing that's very hard
to do with current frameworks.
So the thing that I'd sort of like to get across here
is that when you build these new kinds of systems,
you enable new algorithms.
Many of these algorithms, we think, are actually very relevant
to the data efficiency problems.
This is why we care about it.
And that it is the kind of co-optimization of those things
that we find really interesting.
Cool.
So we're almost out of time.
I just really have one more thing to say,
which is that if you find this exciting, please come talk to us.
We work with lots of folks who have trained big models before,
but we're also trying to do creative new things.
We're trying to change the paradigm.
And certainly our experience, watching some of the companies
Ben has helped incubate, is that creative people
with unconventional backgrounds can actually do amazing things
and change the world.
So if you are of that background, please come chat with us.
OK.
So I guess maybe a very quick recap,
and then I think we probably have time for one question or so.
First of all, data efficiency.
If you care about the shape of the world to come,
if you care about the broad deployment of AI into the economy,
you should care about making models much more data efficient,
and that our finding has been that building new systems
to enable more fine-grained use of GPUs
is actually very relevant to building these kinds of systems.
And as I said, if you find this exciting,
please come talk to us for a round.
Thanks, everyone.
Thank you.