continual learning, long-term reasoning, some aspects of memory, these are still unsolved.
I think all of these are going to be required for AGI. Depending on what your AGI timeline is,
you know, mine's like 2030 or something like this, then if you start off on a deep tech journey
today, you have to just consider AGI appearing in the middle of that journey. It's not bad necessarily,
but you have to take that into account. You have to have an active system that can actively solve
problems for you to get to AGI. So agents are that path. And I think we're just getting going.
Demis Hassabis has had one of the most unusual careers in tech. He was a chess prodigy as a kid,
then designed his first hit video game theme park at 17. He then went back to school, got a PhD in
cognitive neuroscience, published foundational work on how memory and imagination work in the brain.
And then in 2010, co-founded DeepMind with one mission, solve intelligence. And I think they've
done it since then. His lab has gone on to do things most people thought were decades away.
AlphaGo beat a world champion at Go. AlphaFold cracked protein structure prediction,
a 50-year grand challenge in biology, and they gave it away for free to every scientist on earth.
That work won him the Nobel Prize in chemistry last year.
Today, Demis leads Google DeepMind, where he's building Gemini and pushing toward the same goal he set
when he was a teenager. Artificial general intelligence. Please welcome Demis Hassabis.
So you've been thinking about AGI longer than almost anyone. When you look at the current paradigm,
large-scale pre-training, RLHF, chain of thought, how much of the final architecture for AGI do you think
we already have? And what's fundamentally missing right now?
Well, first of all, thanks, Gary, for that great introduction. And it's great to be here. Thanks for welcoming here.
It's an amazing space, actually. I'm going to have to come back here often. Very inspiring that you will get to work
in this space. So the question is, I think the components that you just mentioned, I'm pretty sure will be part of
the final architecture for AGI. So I think they've come such a long way now. And we've proven out so many things
about what they can do. I can't see a world in which we will sort of realize in a
couple of years this was a dead end. That doesn't make sense to me. But there still might be one or two
things missing on top of what you've, you know, what we already know works. So continual learning,
long-term reasoning, some aspects of memory, these are still unsolved. And how to get the systems to be
more consistent across the board. I think all of these are going to be required for AGI. Now, it might be that
the existing techniques can just scale up to that with some innovation and some incremental innovation.
But it could be that there's still one or two big ideas left that need to be cracked. I don't think
it's more than one or two, if there are out there. And I think, you know, my betting is about 50-50,
if that's the case. So of course at DeepMind, at Google DeepMind, we work on both those things.
I guess that's, I mean, working with a bunch of egensic systems, the wildest thing to me is to
what degree, it's the same weights over and over. So this idea of continual learning is so interesting
because like, you know, right now we're sort of cobbling it together with duct tape, you know,
these dream cycles at night and things like that.
Yeah. It's pretty cool, the dream cycles. And we used to think about this with consolidation with
episodic memories. Actually, that's what I studied for my PhD is how the hippocampus works and
integrates, you know, new knowledge gracefully into the existing knowledge base. So the brain does that
amazingly well. It does it, you know, during sleep, especially things like REM sleep, replaying back
episodes that are important so that you can learn from it. In fact, our very first Atari program,
DQN, one of the ways it was able to master Atari games was by doing experience replay. So we sort of
borrowed that from neuroscience and replayed successful trajectories many times, you know,
that's way back in 2013 now in the dark ages of AI. It was a really important thing. And I agree with
you, we're kind of using duct tape right now. So like shove it all in the context window.
But this seems a bit unsatisfying, right? And actually, even though we're working on machines,
not biological brains, and so potentially you could have, you know, millions or tens of millions
size context window or memory, and it can be perfect, there's still a cost to looking it up
and finding the right thing that's actually relevant for the specific decision you've got to make right
now. And that's non-trivial, that cost, even if you can potentially store it all. I think
there's actually a lot of room for innovation in areas like memory.
Yeah. I mean, the wild thing is it feels like a million
token context window is actually bigger than, I mean, it's plenty big, honestly, you can do so.
Well, it's plenty big for most things that it should be used for. I mean, if you think about
the context window is sort of equivalent to working memory, you know, humans have, we have like a few
digits, you know, it's like a dozen digits, maybe, you know, average of seven, we got million or, you know,
10 million context windows. But the problem is, is that we're trying to store everything in that,
you know, things that are not important, things that are wrong. It's pretty brute force currently,
and that doesn't seem right. And then the problem is, if you're now trying to try and process live
video, and you're just going to naively record all the tokens, then actually a million tokens isn't
that much. It's only like 20 minutes. So actually, you need more if you want something that's going to
understand your, you know, your what's going on in your life over maybe a month or two.
DeepMind has historically leaned into reinforcement learning and search. AlphaGo, AlphaZero and MuZero.
How much of that philosophy is actually embedded in how you're building Gemini today? Is RL still underrated?
Yeah, I think potentially it is. It sort of goes in ebbs and waves. You know, we've worked on agents since
the beginning of DeepMind. In fact, that's what we said we were working on. So all of the Atari work and
AlphaGo, most specifically, they're agent systems. And what we meant by that is systems that are able to,
you know, accomplish goals on their own, and make active decisions and make plans. And so, of course,
we were doing it in the domain of games to make it tractable and then doing increasingly complex games,
things like StarCraft, AlphaGo, AlphaStar. So we basically did all the games that were out there.
And then, of course, the question is, can you generalize those models to be world models or
models of language, not just models of simple games or even complex games? And that's what the last few
years has been about. But really, you can think of a lot of the things we're doing today,
all the leading models with thinking modes and chain of thought reasoning as aspects of what was sort of
pioneered with AlphaGo coming back now. And I actually think there's a lot of work we did back
then that is relevant today. And we're sort of re-looking at some of those old ideas at scale today
in a more general way, including things like Monte Carlo Tree Search and other ways of doing,
augmenting the RL on top of the reinforcement learning we're ready to do today. And I think a lot of those
ideas both from AlphaGo and AlphaZero are really relevant to where we are with today's foundation
models. And I think a lot of that is what we're going to see of the advances the next few years.
One question I would have, obviously, today you need bigger and bigger models to be smarter and smarter,
but then we're also seeing distillation working. And then smaller models can be quite a bit faster.
I think you guys have incredible Flash models that you're finding that they're 95% as good
as the Frontier and at like one-tenth the price. Is that right?
I think that's one of our core strengths is, I mean, you have to build the biggest models to have the
Frontier capabilities. But I think one of our biggest strengths has been distilling and packing
that power into smaller and smaller models very quickly. Obviously, we invented the kind of
distillation process and people like Jeff and Oriel and others, and we're still world experts in that.
And we also have a huge need to do it because we've got to serve the biggest probably AI surfaces there
are. Obviously, there's search with AI overviews and AI mode, then there's Gemini app. And now,
increasingly, every single product at Google has maps and YouTube and so on has some aspect of Gemini
or Gemini-related technology in it. And so that's billions of users, more than a dozen billion user
products. And they have to be served extremely fast, extremely efficiently and cheaply and with low
latency. So that gives us a really important incentive to make these flash and even smaller models,
flash light models, extremely efficient. And hopefully that ends up then being really useful for
many of the workloads that all of you use for. I'm curious about how much smarter these smaller
models can actually be. Like, are there limits to the distillation process? Like,
could a 50B or 400B model be as smart as a mythos for today?
Yeah, I don't think we've got to any kind of, or at least none of us know yet, if we've got to any
kind of informational limit. I mean, maybe at some point that will be the case where there's just an
information density that we can't get beyond. But I think for now, the assumption we make is that a year
later after one of our leading pro models or frontier models goes out, half a year later, a year later,
you'll have them in the really tiny, almost edge models. And you also see some of that goodness in
our Gemma models, which hopefully you're all enjoying our Gemma 4 models, which I think are really amazing
power for their sizes. So again, that uses a lot of these distillation techniques and the idea of how
to make things really efficient in these very small models. So I didn't really see any limit yet,
in terms of like some kind of theoretical limit. I think we're still pretty far off of that.
That's amazing. I mean, that is really good because, you know, one of the weirder things that we're
seeing right now is like engineers can do like 500 to 1,000 times the amount of work that they were
doing like six months ago, I guess. I mean, the people in this room, there are people who are doing
about like 1,000x the work that like, Steve Yagi talks about this. It's like 1,000x the work that a
Google engineer from the 2000s was doing. I think it's very exciting. I mean, I think the small models have
many uses. One is obviously cost, but the speed can allow, you know, if you think about coding even or
other things, you can iterate a lot faster. Also, especially if there's, if you're collaborating with
the system, I think there's a, there's a lot of need for having fast systems that maybe are not quite
frontier. Like you said, like 95%, 90%, but that's plenty good enough and actually gain back more than
the 10% on the iteration speed. So, and then the other big thing I think is running these things on the
edge, again, for efficiency reasons, but also for privacy and security reasons too. If you think
about different devices that you might run these systems on that, you know, process very personal
information. You can also think about robotics as well. You know, robots in your house. I think you're
going to want very efficient, very powerful local models, which may be orchestrated, you know, with some
bigger models, frontier models that are in the, in the cloud, but you only delegate to that in certain
circumstances. And perhaps you, you know, you process all of the audio visual feed, let's say, locally, and
that stays local. I could imagine that would be a very good sort of end state.
YC startup school is back. We're hand selecting the most promising builders in the world and flying them
out to San Francisco for July 25th and 26th to discuss the cutting edge of tech. Apply now for a spot.
Okay. Back to the video. Going back to context and memory, models currently stateless, but you know,
continue, like what would the developer experience even be like for someone who's using a continual learning
model? Like, you know, any idea, like how you'd steer it? I think it's really interesting. I think
that's one of the, not having continual learning currently is one of the things holding back agents
from doing full tasks. You know, I think they're really useful for aspects of tasks right now, and
you can patch them together and do some really cool things, but they don't adapt well with the context
that you're in. And I think that's the missing piece for them being really kind of fire and forget,
and they'll figure it out themselves. You know, I think they need to be able to learn about the specific
context that you're going to put them in. So I think we have to crack that to get full general
intelligence. Where are we on reasoning? So models can do really impressive chain of thought now,
but they still fail on things a smart undergrad wouldn't. What specifically needs to change and
what progress do you expect in reasoning? There's a lot of innovation left in the thinking
paradigms, I would say. Again, I think we're fairly, we're doing fairly simplistic things,
fairly brute force. One could imagine, I think there's a lot of scope, for example, in monitoring
the chain of thought, maybe interjecting midway through a thought process. I often get the impression
with our systems and our competitor systems that they're almost overthinking. They're almost getting into
sort of loops of things. Like one thing I sometimes like to do is play chess against Gemini. And you
know, it's that all the leading foundation models are pretty poor at games, which is quite interesting.
It's very cool to kind of look at the thinking traces, because obviously these can be a well understood,
you know, I can tell quite quickly if it's going off on a tangent. And it's very sort of provable what the
thinking is doing, whether it's useful or not. And so what we see is that, you know, sometimes it will
it will consider a move, it will realize it's a blunder, but it can't find anything better. So it
kind of goes back to that move and does it anyway. So, you know, you just shouldn't be seeing that
happening in a very precise reasoning system. So there's just sort of huge gaps, I think still,
but it may only be one or two tweaks that are required to fix those kind of gaps, just to be clear.
But I think that's pretty, pretty obvious there are there. And that's why you get this kind of jagged
intelligence. You know, on the one hand, it can solve gold medal problems in IMO, which is super hard.
But on the other hand, as we've all seen, it can still make basic elementary math errors if you pose
the question in a certain way. Right. So or elementary reasoning errors. So there's just something to me
about the almost an introspection about its own thought process that I feel like there's something maybe
missing there. Agents are really big. Some would say they're hyped. I personally think they're just
getting started. Totally insane. What does DeepMind's internal research tell you about where agent
capabilities actually are right now versus, you know, sort of the hype out there? I think we are.
I agree with you. I think we're just at the beginning. You have to have an active system that can
actively solve problems for you to get to AGI. That was always clear to us. So agents are that path.
And I think we're just getting going. I think all of us are getting used to
to how do we best work. And you're leading the way in a lot of this in your own personal
experiments. And I saw many of you are doing that. I think how do you incorporate it into your
workflow in a way that isn't just sort of a nice to have, but actually starting to do fundamental
things? My impression is at the moment, we're all, you know, we're experimenting on lots of things,
but we're only in that maybe the last couple of months starting to find the really valuable places.
And the technology is probably only getting good enough for that to be the case,
right? That it's not a kind of toy, nice demonstration, but actually really adding value
to your time and efficiency. I'd often wonder, I see a lot of people working on like setting off,
you know, dozens of agents for like 40 hours, but I'm not sure I've seen the output that yet of that
quite justify that level of input going in, but I think it will come. So I still think we're in the
experimentation phase. We haven't seen a AAA game that tops the app store charts that was sort of vibe
coded yet. Right. I've seen, and I've programmed and I'm sure many, we've all done little nice
demonstrations and it's like amazing. I can do a prototype, a theme park in half an hour now, which
took me six months back when I was 17. It's kind of mind blowing. And I, and I wish I got this feeling
if I spent the whole summer working on it, you could make something really incredible, but it still needs
craft and, you know, human sort of soul into it and taste. I think that's, that's something that can,
that's, you have to make sure you still bring that to, to whatever it is you're building. And I think it
still shows like, it's not quite there yet because why haven't we seen a kid making a hit game that's,
that sells 10 million copies, right? That should be possible given the effort that's gone in. So
something's still somehow missing. Maybe it's to do with the process or maybe it's to do with the tools.
I'm not quite sure. You all probably know better than me because I'm sure you're all experimenting on
that, but I haven't seen the result yet, which I would expect once this is really delivering that full
value, which I think will come in the next six to 12 months. Some of it is like, how much of it will
be autonomous versus, I mean, I don't think we'd see autonomous first. We would actually probably see
people in this room operating a thousand X and then. That's what you should see first. And then
many of you, you know, there'll be like games companies or, you know, other types of companies that
have built some kind of best-selling app, best-selling game using these tools. That's what you should see
first. And then more of that will get automated. I mean, some of it is like, there's a human in there
and then the human doesn't want to say that the, the agents did it yet. I think part of it might be
though, that, um, this, if we want to discuss like creativity, what I often say about that is like,
if we look at the things we've done like AlphaGo, so obviously very famously, you'll all know about the
move 37 in game two. And for me, I was waiting for a moment like that to start the science projects
like AlphaFold. So we started AlphaFold like the day we got back from Seoul, which is 10 years ago.
Now I'm going to career after this to celebrate the 10 year anniversary of AlphaGo, but it's not enough
to come up with move 37. Like that's pretty cool, very useful. Um, but can it invent Go?
That's what I, I want a system that can invent Go if you give it a high level description, you know,
like a game you could learn the rules of in five minutes, but it takes many lifetimes to master.
It's beautiful aesthetically. Um, but you can play it in a few hours in an afternoon. So, you know,
maybe you could imagine that would be the high level description I would give. And then I'd want the,
the return, the thing I get back is Go. Right. And, um, clearly today's systems,
I think can't do that. So the question is why. Um, and I think there's something still missing there.
Well, someone in this room might, might make it.
Then the answer would be, there's nothing missing. It just was the way we were using the systems. And that
might actually be the answer. It might be that our today's systems are capable of that with a brilliant
enough creative person using it and providing that impetus. That's the soul of the project and being
able to probably being, uh, Oh, Fay enough with the tools to like almost be at one with the tools.
I could imagine that would be happening if you experimented with the tools all day and all night,
like probably many of you are doing that. And you combine that with proper deep creativity. Um,
something, you know, more incredible could be done. Switching gears to open source. I mean,
or open, open and open weights. I mean, the recent release of Gemma, you're making highly capable,
open and accessible ones that can actually run locally. What do you think that means for your,
will AI be something that is in the hands of the users instead of primarily in the cloud? And does that
change who gets to, you know, build with these models?
Models. We're huge proponents of, in general, of open source and open science. And you mentioned
AlphaFold at the beginning, you know, we put that all out there for free and all of our science work,
even still today, we publish in, you know, the big journals. We wanted to create, uh, world leading
models for their, their sizes. Right. And so that's what hopefully we've done with Gemma and we're, you know,
very committed to that path and hopefully you all experiment and build and enjoy using Gemma. I think
it's been like 40 million downloads now and, uh, just in, you know, two and a half weeks. So we're
really excited about that. And I also think it's important for there to be Western stacks on open
source. You know, obviously a lot of the Chinese models are excellent and, and they're currently,
we're leading in open source. And we think Gemma is very competitive for its sizes, uh, in, in all those
respects. And for us, I mean, there is a question of resources, talent and compute. Like nobody has
enough spare compute to just make two, you know, uh, frontier models at maximum size, right. With
different attributes. So that's pretty difficult, but also for what, for now, what we've, we've decided
is that our edge models, the things we want to use for Android and glasses and robotics, um, it's best
that they're open models because they're vulnerable anyway on the set. Once you put them out on the
surfaces. So they might as well be actually fully open. Right. So we've sort of made a decision to
kind of unify that, uh, at the, at the kind of, we call it nano size level. And so that actually works
for us, uh, strategically as well. Um, and you know, we hope as many people as possible build on it.
And of course we'll be building on that too. Earlier, uh, before we came on, I got to show
you a demo of, uh, my version of Samantha from her, which is harrowing for me to try to demo something to
you. Um, and it worked, which is amazing. Gemini was built multimodal and I spent a lot of time
with a bunch of the models and I mean, the depth of the context and the tool use with speech directly
to model. Like there's nothing like. Bar none, like the best one. Actually. Yeah. Yeah. I think,
I think that's just sort of still a slightly underappreciated aspect of, of, of the Gemini series is
we, we started it being multimodal from the start. That made it a little bit more difficult actually to
begin with because then just focusing on texts, for example, but we believe we're going to gain from
that in the long run. And I think we're seeing that now for, uh, uh, things like world model building.
So stuff like Genie that we build on top of Gemini, I think it's going to be really important for things
like robotics. So this is why Gemini robotics, which many of you probably played around with,
I think it's going to be built on multimodal foundation models, the robotics models.
And, uh, we think we have a sort of competitive advantage with, with Gemini being so strong
at multimodal. We're using it increasingly in things like Waymo. Um, but also if you imagine
devices and assistance, uh, that digital assistants that come with you into the real world, you know,
maybe on your phone or glasses or some other device, um, it needs to understand the physical world around
you and intuitive physics, uh, and, and the, and the physical context you're in. And that's what our
systems are extremely good at. And I think you found that's why you've enjoyed using it in your setup.
We're planning to continue on that. And I think we're far and away the strongest models on, on those
types of, uh, problems.
So the cost of inference is, uh, dropping fast. What becomes possible when inference is essentially
free and how does that change what your team is actually optimizing for?
Yeah. I'm not sure inference will ever be essentially free. I mean, there's sort of
Jevon's paradox and other things about like, I think we'll just end up using,
all of us will end up using whatever we can get our hands on. And you can imagine, uh, millions of
agents, swarms of agents working together on things. So that's one way to use the inference,
or you could imagine, uh, single agents or groups, smaller groups of agents thinking
for in multiple directions and then ensembling that. So we're experimenting with all these things.
Probably many of you are, all of that will use up any inference. I think that's available. I mean,
one day, maybe it can be almost cost zero. Certainly the energy, if we solve fusion or,
you know, super conductors or, you know, optimal batteries or some set of those things,
which I think we will do with material science, energy costs will be essentially zero, but there'll
still be the physical creation of the chips and other things. There'll some, there'll be some bottleneck.
Um, at least for the next few decades, I think. And so if that's the case, there'll still be
rationing on the inference side. You'll still have to use it. I think efficiently.
Yeah. Well, luckily the smaller models are getting smarter and smarter, which is fantastic.
Yep. Uh, we got a lot of bio and biotech founders in the audience. I can see a few. AlphaO3 took us
beyond proteins to a broad spectrum of biomolecules. Uh, how close are we to modeling full cellular systems,
or is that still a fundamentally harder problem in a class of its own?
Well, at isomorphic labs, which we spun out from, from, from, from DeepMind after we did AlphaFold2,
um, it's, it's, which is going amazingly well. It's, it's, it's trying to build out, uh, not just AlphaFold,
it's just one piece of the drug discovery process, uh, as many, you know, but we're trying to do the,
the adjacent biochemistry and chemistry to design the right compounds with the right properties and so on.
We'll have some big announcements for, you know, very soon to talk about on, on that front.
I think that's going really well. Eventually you want a whole virtual cell. So I've talked about this
in many of my science talks about a full working simulation of a cell that you can perturb. And then
the, you know, the, the outputs of that would be close enough to experimental that it's useful,
right? You could skip out a lot of the, the search steps and generate loss of synthetic data to
train other models that then would predict things about, you know, real cells. And, um, I think we're
about 10 years away, probably from something like a virtual cell, like a full virtual cell, you know,
we're starting out, this is, we're working on the DeepMind side, science side on a, you know,
virtual nucleus, cell nucleus first, because relatively self-contained. The trick with all of these
things is can you pick a slice of the complexity, you know, eventually you want to, want to model a human
body, but can you model it down to the right level of detail and what slice can you, uh, take out of
it that will be self-contained enough. You can kind of model and approximate the inputs and outputs into
that self-contained system, and then just focus on the self-contained system. So a nucleus is quite
interesting from that perspective. Um, then the other issue is just, there's not enough data yet. So you need data. Uh, and I talk to
various, you know, top scientists about who work on electron microscopes and other imaging things. If we
could image a live cell without killing the cell, that would be, um, game changing, obviously, because then
you could convert it into a vision problem, which we would know how to solve. Right. But at the moment,
there are at least, I don't, I'm not aware of any techniques that can give you a kind of, you know,
nanometer resolution, uh, but without destroying, but in, you know, in a live dynamic cell. So you can
see all the interactions, right. You can take static images at that resolution, obviously, um, really
detailed now, and that's quite exciting, but it's not enough, uh, to turn it just into, uh, just into a
complex vision problem. So that's one way it could be solved. So it could be a hardware-driven data-driven
solution, or it could be that we build better, uh, learned simulators of, uh, these dynamical systems.
So that's, that's the more modeling way of solving it. Uh, you've been looking at all kinds of science,
not just bio. Uh, there's material science, drug discovery, climate modeling, mathematics.
If you had to rank which scientific domain will transform the most dramatically the next five years,
what's in your list? Well, they're also exciting. And that's why, I mean, that, that for me has been
my main passion and always the reason why I've worked on AI for my whole career for 30 plus years now
is to use AI as the ultimate tool. I always thought AI would be the ultimate tool for science
and to advance advanced scientific understanding, scientific discovery, and things like medicine,
and just our understanding of the universe around us. So actually, when you mentioned our original
way we used to articulate our mission statement, which is still, uh, the way we think about it is
there was two steps to it. One was step one was solve intelligence, i.e. build AGI.
And then step two was use it to solve everything else. We had to change that a bit over time because
people were like, do you really mean solve everything else? And we did mean that. And I think people are
sort of understanding what that means today, but specifically I was meaning solve other, what I call
root node problems in science. So areas of science that would unlock whole new branches or avenues of
discovery and alpha fold is the prototypical example of what we want to do. So over 3 million
researchers around the world, pretty much every biology researcher in the world, uh, uses alpha fold now.
And I was told by some of my, you know, pharma executive friends that, you know, almost every drug
discovered from now on will have used alpha fold at some point in it, in the drug discovery process.
So that's something we're very proud of. And it's the sort of impact that we hope to have with, with AI.
But I do think it's just the beginning. I don't really see any area of science or engineering that
science won't be able to help be helpful with. And the ones you mentioned, I think we're almost like
an alpha fold one moment. So it's, we've got very promising results, but it's not quite solved
the, the grand challenge yet in that domain. But I think we're going to have a lot to talk about
in the next couple of years on all those areas. You mentioned materials, which I think is very
exciting all the way to mathematics in science. I mean, it feels Promethean. It's like here is
this capability. And I think so. I mean, of course, along with that, including what the, the parable
of Prometheus, we have to also be careful with how we use that and what we use it for. And also the
misuse, uh, that can happen with those same tools. A lot of people in this room are trying to build
companies, applying AI to science for them. What's the difference between a startup that actually advances
the frontier in your view versus one that's just wrapping an API around a foundation model and
calling it AI for science? Well, look, I think that's one of the things I would recommend. I'm
trying to think about, and I think you mentioned this to me before. What would I do today myself
if I was sitting in your place and Y Combinator, you know, looking at things? One thing you have to
do is obviously intercept where the AI tech is going. So that's one hard part of it. But I do think there's
huge scope for combining where AI is going with some other deep technology area. I just think that that
sweet spot is whether it's materials or medicine or other really hard areas of science. I think that
those kinds of interdisciplinary teams, especially if it involves the world of atoms as well, there's not
going to be a shortcut to that, at least in the foreseeable future. Those are areas that are pretty
safe from just getting swarmed by whatever the next update is to the foundation models. So I think if
you're looking for things like that, that's one of the more defensible areas, I would say. And I've
always loved deep tech, so I'm kind of biased towards deep tech things. I think nothing that's really
long lasting and worthwhile is easy. And so I'm always being drawn to deep technologies. Obviously, AI was
like that back in 2010 when we started out, right? It was thought to just, we know it doesn't work kind
of thing is what I was told by investors. And even in academia, it was considered to be a very niche
subject that we sort of tried in the 90s and we know doesn't work. But if you, you know, if you have
belief and conviction in your idea, why it's different this time, or what special combination from your
background that you had, ideally your expert in both those areas, both the machine learning and the other
area you're applying it to, or you can create a founding team with that expertise. I think there's huge
impact to be made there and huge value to be built there. That's a really important message. I mean,
even, I mean, it's hard, it's easy to forget. Like basically once you've done it, you've done it,
but before you've done it, people are arrayed against you. Oh, sure. I mean, no one believes in it,
which is why I think you've got to, you've also got to work in things that you're genuinely passionate
about. Like for me, I would have worked on AI no matter what happened. I just decided from a very young
age, it was the thing that could be the most consequential thing I could think of. It's turned
out that way, but it might not, maybe we would have been 50 years too early. And it was also the most
interesting thing I could think of working on. And so I would still be working on AI today, even if we
were still, you know, in a little garage somewhere and it still wasn't quite working. I would have still
been trying to find, maybe I'd have been back in academia or something, but I would have found some
way of, of continuing to work on it. So, I mean, alpha was like an example of a spike
that you pursued and it worked, you know, what makes the scientific domain ripe for an alpha fold
style breakthrough? And is there a pattern, a certain objective function? Like the way I, I should write
this up at some point when I have five minutes spare, but the lesson I've learned from all the alpha
projects we've done specifically alpha go and alpha fold is, um, I think the techniques we have and the
problems I look like to look for are great in, if this, if the situation can be described as massive
combinatorial search space, the more massive, the better in some ways. So no brute force or special case
algorithm will, will solve it. And that's true of go moves and of, you know, different configurations
of proteins, far more than the atoms in the universe, both of those. And then, um, you have a clear
objective function. So, you know, you could think of it as minimizing the free energy in the proteins or, you
know, the winning the game of go. So you need to better specify your objective function clearly. So you can hill climb
and then, um, enough data and or simulator that can generate you, uh, lots of, uh, in distribution, uh, uh,
synthetic data. If those things are true, then I think, um, with today's methods, you can go a long way into tackling and finding the kind of needle in the haystack
that you need, uh, to, for the solution that you're trying to look for. And I think of just drug discovery,
by the way, in the same way, right? There is a compound out there that would solve this disease.
If one could find it, if one could only find it, right. And that wouldn't have any side effects and so
on. And, uh, as long as the laws of physics allows it, then the only question is how do you find it in an
efficient way in a tractable way? I think we showed for the first time actually with alpha go that these
systems could, uh, find those kinds of needles in a haystack in that case, you know, the perfect go move.
I guess, uh, to get a little meta, I mean, we've, we're talking about humans using these methods to
create alpha fold, but then there's a meta level, which is humans using AI to explore the space of
possible hypotheses. How close are we to AI systems that can do genuine scientific reasoning, not just
pattern matching on data. I think we're close. Um, we're working on these general systems like that,
like I think we have this system called co-scientist and we have other algorithms like alpha evolve that can
go a little bit beyond what the basic Gemini will do. And obviously all the frontier labs are
experimenting in this way. I've yet to seen anything so far. And we, we all tinker with same things,
you know, some math problems that are a little bit harder than IMO and so on. I haven't seen anything
yet. Um, that is a true genuine, you know, massive discovery. That's my personal opinion. I think it's
coming. I think it may be related to, uh, this earlier, this thing we discussed about creativity and,
and actually going on beyond the bounds of what's known. So clearly that's just not pattern matching
and matching at that point. Cause there's, there is no pattern to match to, and it's a bit more than
extrapolation. It's some kind of analogical reasoning. And I don't think these systems have
that, or at least we're not using them in the, in the right way to do that. So the way I often say that
in science is, can it come up with a hypothesis that's really interesting and not just solve one.
When I say just, we're now talking about just like solving the Riemann hypothesis or something. This
would be obviously amazing. Well, one of the millennium prize problems, and maybe we're a couple
of years out from doing that. Um, but I'd like to solve P equals NP. That's, that's my favorite one,
but can you, but even harder than that would be to come up with a new set of, of millennium prize
problems that were regarded by top mathematicians to be as, you know, deep and meaningful and worthy of
lifetime of study and effort to solve. I think that's another level harder and, uh, we don't have,
um, you know, I still don't think we know how to do that. I don't think it's, it's magical though.
I do think these systems will be eventually be able to do that. Maybe we were missing one or two things.
And then the way we would test that is, you know, sometimes call it my Einstein test, which is,
you know, can you train a system with the knowledge of cutoff of 1901 and then will it come up with,
you know, what Einstein did in 1905, including special relativity, you know, his Annus Mirabilis.
Can it, can it do that? Right. Uh, and then I think we could run that test. Maybe,
maybe we should just run that test and keep seeing if that's possible. And once that is,
then I think we're on the verge of these systems being able to invent something new, truly novel.
So last, last question for the people who are deeply technical in
this room, who want to work on something, you know, even close to the scale that what you've
created with, you know, it's one of the largest AI efforts in the world. And you've been a pioneer
for all these years. So for that, I think everyone in this room, thanks you and the folks at DeepMind
very, very deeply from the bottom of our hearts. Thank you.
What's the thing that you know now about building at the frontier that you wish you'd known at 25?
I think we covered some of it in terms of actually you, you work out that going after hard problems and
deep problems, um, it's no more difficult in some ways than going after a shallower, simpler, more
superficial problem. They're, they're just differently difficult. There's different things that are hard
about each of those things. But I think given life's very short and you know, you only have so much time
and energy, you might as well put your life force into something that will really make a difference
if you hadn't done it, if you hadn't been there to push it. So I would just think of it through that
lens. And then the other thing is if you're, if you are, and we talked about deep tech, and I love
interdisciplinary work. And I think that's going to be even more prevalent in the next few years in
combinations of fields and finding the connections between those fields. And it's going to be even
easier to do that with AI. And then the only other thing I would say is if, you know, if you have your,
depending on what your AGI timeline is, you know, mine's like 2030 or something like this, then if you
start off on a deep tech journey today, usually that you're talking about a 10 year journey for true
deep tech, in my opinion. So then now you have to just consider AGI appearing in the middle of that
journey. So what does that mean? It doesn't, it's not bad necessarily, but you have to take that into
account, right? To will it be able to leverage it? What will the AGI system do with it? And it goes a
little bit back to what you said earlier about alpha fold and general AI systems. So one thing I can
think see happening is Gemini, Claude, or one of these general systems making use of alpha fold,
like specialized systems as tools. I don't think we're going to have it just in one giant brain
because it will have too much regression in, if I put all the proteins into, you know, Gemini,
that wouldn't make sense. We don't need Gemini to do protein folding. Going back to your information
efficiency, it would definitely affect its language skills or something like that, right? In a bad way.
So much better, I think, is to have really good general purpose tool usage models that will then,
maybe they could even train those specific tools, but they would be in a separate system.
So I think that's kind of interesting to think through the implications of that and then what
you might build today. Also physical things too, like what kinds of factories would you build?
What sorts of, you know, finance systems and so on. So I just think you need to really take that
seriously. And on the one hand is like, and imagine what that world would look like and then build
something that would be useful if that comes in halfway through.
Demis and Sabis, everyone.