all right thomas thank you for joining me today we're at the google cloud campus
and i really appreciate your time today thanks for having me i am super excited to talk to you
have a bunch of questions for you the first question i've been thinking about so much lately is tpu capacity
when you look at the other frontier labs like anthropic and open ai all they talk about is
being uh compute constrained but then you see google over here who you know you have the full stack you
have your own chips but you're not only serving your own inference you're training you're selling inference
you are also allowing some of your competitors to build on top of your own chips you're also
selling your own chips how do you have so much capacity or how do you think about it whereas the
other frontier labs can't seem to get enough if you think about what percentage of the world are we
monetizing and in some places we monetize the tokens as the token and the chip in other places we monetize the token
somebody else's model but using a chip underneath it and part of the reason is we go back many many years
and we do long-term planning and so when we saw this ai moment coming we looked at a number of different
factors to ensure we were not physically constrained we diversified how many energy sources we had
we locked in real estate so we could build data centers we changed how we manufacture data centers we
don't build them in construction we shifted a lot more to manufacturing because manufacturing can always
do faster than you can do with construction we reduced cycle time to deploy machines all of that
was stuff we've done and that helps us capacity wise and then on the silicon side
we've always worked with nvidia as a partner but we've also wanted to build our own silicon and we've
done it for i think it's like 11th year now or 12th year 8th generation tpu will be announced at our
event yeah we're going to talk about that and so that's something we've got real art of doing over and
over and over and over and delivering that advantage over and over and it's something we've
delivered and the interesting thing is we see demand now from not just from the ai labs
but from other segments you'll see citadel for example in capital markets talking about how they're using
our tpus you'll see department of energy and high performance computing customers talk about it
so we're also seeing tpus becoming more general purpose infrastructure not just for ai algorithms and
so when you're looking at monetizing tpus across all of the different avenues that you have to allocate your
compute how how does it compare can you maybe if you want to share specific numbers great but if you're
looking at just comparing and contrasting selling a tpu versus allowing anthropic or open ai to serve
their inference through your infrastructure versus your own gemini models how do those different avenues
compare we balance investments across all these you know and we make great margins no matter which way we're
selling it because we own our own ip we're not just a distributor of other people's ip i think that's
helped us and you've seen us improve both top line and operating margin we've also moved tpus now as for
example when you look at capital markets one of the things we find that's very interesting is that
algorithmic trading was done using numerical computation which was largely done on traditional compute
that's been constrained by the moore's law the incremental improvement you see generation to
generation is getting slower and so many of the top firms have seen the huge improvements they can get
by shifting to inference instead of doing computation using numerical techniques if you shift to inference
you can write the improvements you're seeing in inference time and as they've come in
they want our machines in their venues where it's closer to where the exchanges are for example right
so we've started taking tpus and making it available in other people's data center for some of our key
customers and that's a slightly different business model and we have you know in in macro i would say
diversification improves product because you see requirements from many places
diversification and monetization also helps us grow i mean when we deal with supply chain vendors for
example because we are using these chips not just for our own needs but also offering them a market they
say well google's demand is a sum total of a much larger pool and as a result we get favorable terms i want
to stick on this point for a moment longer if compute demand is infinite i mean even just for the r d
side why not why not just hoard the compute why not just keep it and to put a finer point on it
if agi is is really the goal that all of the ai labs are heading towards and whoever hits it kind of
first and is able to scale it out wins it seems like keeping the capacity keeping it for yourself keeping
it for your own models is actually quite beneficial what am i missing you have to make money to fund all of
this google makes a ton of money but you have to keep generating cash flow to do it and this is one more
lever for us to generate sufficient cash flow and the amount we allocate to other people is balanced
always against our own needs and our own capital requirements and you know no matter which lab you're in
venture capital cannot fund you indefinitely yeah and as compute costs grow if you're running a loss leader
of your business where you're losing money uh and you're not making enough money from inference and
other techniques to cover the cost of trading as that gap which gets wider the number of sources you
can go to get smaller i've been talking about how google is in such a unique position they have the cash cows
they have the chips they have the models does does your gemini team ever come to you and say like we
don't have enough or i i know i'm really sick on this point it's just so wild for me to hear where these
other companies are just not able to keep up there's always demand for these things and it'll i think for
the next 10 years there will always be more demand than supply and that's a good place to be in if you
have your own chip if you don't you're reselling other people's stuff and in a capacity constrained
environment your unit economics get more expensive and in our case because we control the chip the unit
economics remain attractive so that is going to be an advantage for us because we own the silicon
so if you look at the whole pie of your tpus of your computer infrastructure can you talk a little
bit about what the split is between training inference selling tpus serving inference for other labs broad brush i
think we don't talk about the details so i'm not going to go through every element sure but broad brush
if you look in macro cloud is about half of alphabets capital and it's growing because it's growing much
faster as you know so that's like a split and then on our side a significant part of our growth is
coming from gemini and our models and so you can use that as a rough approximation okay you you mentioned
data centers and building out data centers can you explain what the difference is between construction
and manufacturing when you're talking about data centers yeah it's just uh what is the unit at which
you're deploying capacity so you could take for example a rack of machines assemble it in a data center
you could take an entire row of machines and deploy it in a data center the higher the grain at which you can
deploy the more you can pre-constructed pre-test it in a central location which means you're much faster in
deployment when you're planning deployment of a new data center you're probably more aware than anybody
there's a pretty negative sentiment about data centers in the us specifically i think it's 20 favorability
how do you think about that and and how do you think the broader ai industry can start to change the
opinion change the sentiment around artificial intelligence and specifically deploying data centers
which gives the us a strategic advantage it's i tend to be very optimistic about ai in general so how do you
think about that what people are really concerned about on data centers is a couple of things number one
you know will energy costs in my state or my county go up right second will there be sufficient employment
in the local community in which the data center operates and so there's a couple of things that
we're doing first one is we're investing in behind the meter technology where we're not taking energy off
the grid and we cross connect to the grid if the state wants it so that in case there's short supply on
the grid our energy can fuel the grid we're investing in alternate forms of energy because we think that
the traditional mode of generate and distribute is not necessarily the only way that energy supply will
come into the market and so one of the things we're we're looking at is can you reduce the unit cost of
energy with new forms of energy delivery created by the demand for ai but then can serve the broader market
third we take a lot we pay a lot of attention to making sure the unit of energy we're consuming what's
called pue that we have the best in the industry meaning if you need a hundred megawatts of compute
how little incremental megawatts do you need from the energy source so you're not wasting energy
and we're by far the most efficient at that in the world and there's a thousand things that go into
that on thermodynamic exchange how we do heating all of that lastly we're investing in the communities
in which we're in and to avoid the communities feeling like google's deploying in one giant location we
distribute it in many places so that no individual state feels like we're becoming a big burden on their
resources and we've had a great track record i travel to many many of our data centers and when you go to
the local economy and see the kids in the school systems and you see the employees who operate our data
centers who are super important to us how much economic development we bring to those rural communities where
you know we think that's part of our responsibility that's fantastic what about the broader sentiment and
not the local community because when you go in you create jobs you're investing you're not using the
electricity and driving up the prices directly um that's all wonderful but how do you actually
change the the hearts and the minds of the broader u.s demographic with regards to artificial intelligence
that's that's going to be a process you know and i think it's finding places where you can apply the
technology in a way that's good for society rather than just uh you know causing issues where people
are worried about job displacement i'll give you just a few examples of things please you'll see in our
you know keynote a company called signal they do not talk about it they're a health insurer based in
germany they're the largest health insurer in germany they today deploy a lot of agents built on gemini
enterprise to to help their teams do work the really interesting thing was there was a lot of anxiety
when we started the work with them that it would mean job displacement they have not let go anybody
and in fact what they found is the accuracy with which and the speed with which they can answer
questions from people about uh am i eligible for this treatment or not it's cut down from in some
cases 23 minutes to research and answer now to less than a few seconds and so that's improved
efficiency it's improved quality of the customer care and they've not let go a single job we work for
example with the american society for clinical oncology that alerted 51 000 members every oncologist in
the united states they wanted an application where ai was helping a doctor sitting down to deal with a
patient to understand standard of care guidelines which is this person's come in they have breast cancer
what's the guideline it turns out they're also diabetic i can't prescribe chemo if they're diabetic
of this kind there's a lot these rules are incredibly complicated in many cases they overlap
and they wanted some help on providing answers the answers have to be 100 correct you can have
a hallucination and we've helped them and it helps doctors take care of patients and the feedback from
their membership has been incredibly rewarding to see so there are lots of examples and we always say
the most important thing city group for example is building a wealth advisor so today if you think
of the average citizen they get uh if you're a high net worth person you can go to a private bank and
your wealth management professional advise you if you're an average person who doesn't have those
financial resources you may not get high quality advice city group is building a wealth advisor they're
going to be showing it at the event which allows you to use our reasoning and task management
capabilities in gemini to advise people and also to help them take investment actions if they want so these are
examples of things that society is going to find beneficial it takes time to get the balance between
the ai is going to cause massive job displacement to also hear from this side of things and that's
part of the journey we're on as a as a society i i do agree i think job displacement in particular is
is something the general population in the u.s is extremely worried about let me ask you directly
for your organization google cloud now that you're seeing your engineers and and other parts of your
organization be more productive because of artificial intelligence more automation are you hiring are you
letting go folks are you stable where where are you on that we're adding people for products and sales we're
hiring a lot of people in a go-to-market organization we're hiring a lot of forward deployed engineers
and in places where we're building new product we're adding capability like an example i will tell you
here's an example of what people don't see a long time ago we said as models became more sophisticated
in understanding code and second as models learn how to use computers to do tasks there are lots of things
they can do amazingly well but one of the issues with understanding code is they can also find
vulnerabilities in code and so enormous anxiety about cyber security vulnerabilities from some of the new models
we're going to talk about that made a decision a long time ago to do three things number one
helping improve gemini as a way to detect issues in code and we have a lot of customers using it
second helping build a model that can repair code because if you're finding vulnerabilities very
quickly people may not be able to keep up so can a model assist you in fixing it and we have new
capability coming for that when we acquired this company wiz you'll see us showing new capability with wiz and
it's really about continuous detection you know people call it continuous red teaming so we're going to show
three different types of agents an agent that continually attacks you to make sure your vulnerabilities
are being fixed and you don't get caught off guard which you couldn't do before an agent that prioritizes
the issues that have been discovered so that you can get okay these are the ones i really need to fix
and then the third one that helps you fix i'm glad to hear you're you're still hiring you're more
productive and hiring i i there are companies out there i think block is the the big one you know
jack dorsey put out this blog post block laid off half of their organization blamed to ai
or pointed at ai is the reason what do you think the difference is between like how google sees this
productivity increase and is still increasing employment versus block who said no we're actually
going to transform the company we need we need half as many people and we're going to do things better
where's the discrepancy there every company has demand for its products and services and each ceo makes
their own decisions we're seeing plenty of demand and so we're investing let's talk about nvidia for a moment
jensen just did a podcast with tarkesh and he talked about how nvidia and their architecture is the
cheapest on a per token basis overall total cost of ownership that's because of cuda and mvlink
networking tooling delivering better tokenomics can do you agree with that assessment do you think google is
the best overall total cost of ownership uh and if not how does google catch up we have a lot of customers
who say we are the best total cost of ownership i guess that was the answer right i mean the reality
is if you're an ai lab you choose the best platform it's not just our own teams that use it we have more
demand than we can possibly meet from all the other ai labs and so i would just tell you that
they would not be asking for tpu if you were much more expensive is a big factor of what makes tpu special
the speed i've noticed the gemini family of models is very fast and as a speed maxi myself i very much
appreciate the speed and typically when you're looking at asics they're specialized they tend to be
a lot faster than the generalized gpu like is that a selling point for a lot of ai labs or for your own
customers are they still saying quality all day quality quality it's a combination i would say three
core elements because i think it's not the chip it's the system a tpu system for example uh at has 9600
chips uh 8i is i think 1152 all on a single optical torus network so there's incredibly high bandwidth
super predictable latency across all the chips in a pod. And that gives you, for example,
when you look at the speed with which we're able to take stuff out of the memory for processing
and to put stuff back in memory, it's extraordinarily efficient. Just to give an example,
8T, the training chip, can fit two petabytes of memory in a single system. Two petabytes is like
100 times the size of all the Library of Congress digitized. And because it's the super low latency
network, your throughput from memory into the chips themselves are extremely fast. Third,
if you look above that layer from a programming stack point of view, you have a lot of tools that
Google has built and given to the industry that's used for compiler optimization. For example,
JAX, we've done great work with PyTorch, you know, XLA, Pathways. These are all technology that Google's
built. And so you put all of that together. And even if you look at inference, VLLM, there's a number
of technologies that are super optimized. It's that whole stack that makes that TPU system so efficient
and so powerful. And you see that measure through what we call good put. Good put is how much effective
throughput are you seeing. We also made some decisions a long time ago, like three, four years
ago. For instance, we saw that energy, to your point earlier on energy was going to be short supply.
So we focused on optimizing the dollars per watt or tokens per watt. And I think that's another element
that you see a lot of people on. So you've talked a little bit about planning and the TPU, remind me,
you said 11 years? Yes. 11 years ago. It's kind of wild to see that a decision made so long ago,
long in the tech world has bared so much fruit in the last few years. How much change, how much
variance in your planning happens based on what you're seeing in the market today? Do the decisions
that you made years and years ago apply and they're just steadfast? Or are you having to change things
constantly? I would say the history we have across the different layers of the stack has compounded over
time. When we did TensorFlow, we realized you needed a large scale distributed programming model for
training. And we built JAX, for example, that was something that was compounded on our history of
learning from what people were trying with TensorFlow and needing a new distributed training model, right?
So some of these accumulate over time because we learn from what we're doing from prior and we're
we're making new improvements. We're also incredibly attuned to the market, listening to customers,
making decisions like people asked us, why did you build 8i? You know, the inference chip. It's because
it's we've seen that as you eventually, no matter how rich you are, you cannot fund training without
making money on inference. And so you have to at least cover the cost of your training from a break-even
point of view over time. You can't just always depend on venture capitalists to fund you.
And so we said there's going to be a big demand for inference. We knew what the factors we needed to
optimize for inference. And, you know, frankly, the demand for the inference, the 8i has been way, way more than we expected.
So let's talk about the 8th gen chip. So this is the first time where you have split out two different chips,
family, but two different chips, one for inference, one for pre-training. First, just confirm, Ironwood
was more built for inference?
Ironwood was a mixed chip. It was used for training and inference.
Yeah. I think there was people, people run, for example, inference. There's a lot of diurnality to it
during for like chat. During the daytime, people wake up and they ask a bunch of questions at night,
even some people still sleep. And so at that time, a lot of people were using it spot for inference,
like post-training. A lot of people were doing on spot instances at night. So it's a general purpose chip.
With 8, T is mostly for training. Some people are considering using it for inference. And I is
primarily for inference, although people with smaller models also use it for training.
Based on the fact that you decided to split the chips, what does that say about where the workloads are
heading? What do you see today? And then what do you think we're going to see over the next,
let's say, five years? Where are the major workloads going to be?
So you see that in the work we're doing with Gemini as much as in the silicon. So if you look at Gemini,
we've seen sort of three phases, if you will, with the models. The first phase was where people were
asking the model a set of questions and it was answering. And you may iterate on it in a multi-turn,
but it was primarily a kind of a search chat bot like experience. So our Gemini Enterprise product
does provide the ability to do search and answer questions. It also added deep research to do deep
analysis. Then the second phase came along where people used to use diffusion models primarily to
create content like images, audio, video. And then with 2.5 nano banana, we added media in was always true,
but media out became part of the main model. And so we saw people from creative, for example, WPP,
a variety of CPG firms using Gemini Enterprise, our enterprise AI platform to create content.
And there's all kinds of content creation now going on with it. And then the models became really good at
dealing with a variety of different systems. That is to talk to your CRM system, to ask and answer questions about customers.
It may have to look at your supply chain and planning systems. And as the models became really good at dealing with those,
and the ultimate abstraction is abstracting the rest of the world as a computer. Because if you can talk to
a computer, the computer can talk to everything. Because all these forms of software are just abstractions
for how a computer can talk to it.
Do you think that is the ultimate abstraction? A model being able to control computers, computer use, browser use?
But understanding the information that comes from those systems as well. It's not just I can talk to a computer,
but I need to be able to respond to the information that computer gives me. Do you see what I mean?
And so that's then led to this notion of agent. An agent is a module, let's call it that, that you can delegate tasks to.
The agent describes itself with a set of skills and it knows how to operate a set of tools.
And then it can operate those, including a computer and do tasks on your behalf.
Now for us, that allows people, whether it's Xfinity using us to schedule and manage all their customer care.
Walmart using us for a variety of things in their organization, from planning to scheduling.
Bosch and manufacturing using us. Merck has talked about how they're using us for
research and patient from the drug discovery out to delivering to patients, the whole cycle being automated.
And that's the next phase of evolution. And so part of it is we're sort of co-designing
as the skills of the model advance, we're able to broaden the set of things that can be done.
Tie it back to how that informs the decision to split up the two chips between inferencing and training.
So if you look back when you asked search a quest, the first phase, there were a lot more input tokens
than output tokens. When you ask the model a set of questions, because you would ask it a very
complicated, long described question and it would say, this is the answer. Then when you came to
content generation, you would give it a simple prompt, create a video that shows
my dog wearing a superman cape and driving a car. And then it would take a while to generate the output
tokens. So that generated a very different mix of tokens of the type of tokens. Multimodality
was one big thing. And then the volume of output tokens grew. Then you come along to agents. It
informed chip design in three or four different ways. It informed us on how long you need to maintain
stuff in memory. So for example, how, what kind of KV cash would you want? Because now you're delegating
something that could run for six, seven, 12 hours. You don't want to be shuffling things in and out as
tokens because they get expensive. So that's one example of something. Second example, you want this
tope this system to operate a computer. By the way, that computer is a traditional classical compute machine.
So when people asked us, how did that inform your chip effort? We not only work with Intel, we all have
our own ARM chips. And so we built that because we saw general purpose compute usage coming from these tools.
When you run for inference, an agent that does many, many different steps, there are things about how you
want to hold and pin objects in memory in the model so that the model runs things super efficiently because
that can really optimize the cost of inference. There are many things we've done internally on how the chip
can hold things in memory. And then because people wanted even a practical example, people want inference in
many locations because they want to manage latency, unlike training where you can put it in a few big
locations. So a practical example is 8i can be run in non-water cooled mode so that you can put it in many
more locations because air cooling is still the primary thing in most data centers. So there's a lot of thought
that goes into these decisions. I'm just giving you three simple examples to illustrate.
Yeah, I think the agent piece is really interesting because it really changes the way that those tokens are
actually used in practice. Obviously, NVIDIA talks a lot about extreme co-design. Google seems like they have
extreme co-design on every layer. First, talk about with agentic usage, especially if you're doing a lot of
read and writes to a hard drive. There's a lot of pieces that you need to optimize for. What's the
latest thing that you've optimized for in the TPU stack? And then where do you think the next big
bottleneck is based on agentic usage growth?
So we look at the whole system all the time. A couple examples. We're announcing two new storage
solutions next week. One is our managed luster solution. We've improved it to run 10 terabytes per second
throughput. It is really designed for large-scale training. So you can cross-connect it to a giant
cluster. And because you have large data sets, you can read them from the large-scale luster cluster now
into a large training fleet for super-efficient scale. So that's one. Second thing we introduced is a
a new ultra-low latency inference storage system called Rapid Storage. And the idea is you can centrally keep
the information you want to inference on in our cloud storage, but you can mount it close to where, think of
it as a forward proxy-like thing, wherever your inference chips are running. And so from your inference
processor down to the storage system, rapid storage to fetch for inference, it's incredibly fast. It's 15
terabits per second. So you get ultra-low latency. You want to optimize all this stuff on a common network
backbone. So we're introducing a new form of networking called Virgo, which gives you ultra-low connectivity
speed across a giant cluster. So there are many, many other parts to the stack. We're also co-designing
because of agents coming in. And the idea is to give people the most efficient cost structure to run
agents with the best performance and quality. Where's the next big bottleneck?
The next big bottleneck will be largely around when consumers use virtual machines. Let's say I'm a
consumer at home. I build an agent and the agent is going to schedule travel for me, just hypothetically,
if you're going on vacation. And you ask it to do a bunch of tasks like go look up eight travel sites
which are exposed as tools. You know, this common thing now people call MCPs or APIs. Let's go find all
the travel sites. Let's say it's booking a trip to Europe or to Southeast Asia, run that, calculate for
me the total cost and tell me my budget. Consumers cannot afford to have VMs running forever. It's extremely
expensive as you know. So people want to activate, deactivate VMs whenever a task gets done.
And because these tools need local storage, these virtual machines can be oversubscribed,
but you can also have local disks from which you read and write super efficiently. And so that's going
to be a bottleneck because it's going to directly affect how widespread you can make this technology
available because companies can pay for stuff. Obviously the cheaper and more efficient, they can use more
stuff. But if you want to bring this to consumers, you know, for them, it gets expensive very quickly.
And if you want to reach everybody, you're going to have to engineer the cost structure of these things.
And having, again, that ability to go across the layers from the agent down to Gemini, down to the
storage system and the compute systems, that allows us to co-design.
So thank you for sharing that. I want to talk about Anthropic a little bit. Anthropic is one of
Google's customers. They are a unique company in a lot of ways. Claude is one of Google's biggest
rivals at the same time. Yet you are essentially their backbone for a lot of the training, a lot of the
inference. How do you think about that decision? And I know we touched on it earlier, but I want to go into more detail.
How do you think about powering Anthropics models and then they are also competing with Google?
Is that the AWS playbook where it's power everybody and we're just not going to play favorites?
Or is it something different?
Google's a platform company, you know? So when you're a platform company, different parts of the business
compete with different players in the market. Some parts of the business may supply them and some part of the business may compete with them.
And so we're determined to be best in class in the models. And we're very proud of what we've done,
not just with Gemini, the model, but also the whole tool chain that we're bringing around Gemini with our enterprise portfolio of tools.
At the same time, you know, there are customers who want, for example, our TPUs. And so Anthropic is an example of them.
And it's just part of being a platform company. It's the same way that people ask us, how well do you optimize
your model with Apple? Apple, for example, has signed a contract with us for the model, as you know.
And so people go, isn't that competing with your Android platform and ecosystem? Yes. But that's part of being a platform company.
Yeah. I think I'm kind of stuck on the Anthropic piece because, I mean, they are competing at the enterprise level where Apple is not.
Yeah. I'm just thinking, you know, you're powering them. And then at a certain point we may get, and although there's plenty of TPU capacity to go around right now, as you said,
but at a certain point, there might have to be a difficult decision. How do you make that decision of, well, can we give the capacity to an Anthropic or do we keep it for Gemini?
Do we keep it for our own research? How do you make that decision?
We have an executive team with Sundar and we discuss these. And as any mature company, we make those decisions. There's difficult calls every day. For instance, we have demand not just from Anthropic.
So what percentage far, even if you said there's X amount for Gemini and there's Y amount for the rest of the world, what amount do you give Anthropic versus the hundreds of other labs and other customers ask us for it?
That's all complicated decisions that anybody has to make. What I'll tell you is this, it's better to have your own chips and demand than not having your own chips.
Yeah. Well said. Mythos, you, you kind of hinted at it a little bit. I think it's rumored to be the first 10 trillion parameter model.
Is Google playing in the 10 trillion parameter model space yet? Are you, are you close to it? Where are you in that, in that life cycle?
You'll see new stuff from us on Gemini with announcements coming both at next and soon after.
I think on the capability of the model, we're very proud of where Gemini is.
I mean, it's been state of the art for a long time. We have a new version of Gemini coming very, very soon.
And from all the benchmarks we've seen, we've been very confident on that as well.
So, hypothetically, if you think about a 10 trillion parameter model based on what you oversee on the TPU side,
is that even a feasible size to serve in the current state of the, the, the world?
We've had a capability to do disaggregated serving, which allows us to scale very large, dense models,
super well. And that's been in place for a long time. And so we're able, we would not design a model that we
couldn't serve. And so we're very confident that TPUs can serve the largest models in the world.
And most importantly, our serving stack we use for disaggregated serving by definition is the most
efficient on TPU and of all the model providers in the industry. So we're very confident we can serve
the largest models, particularly the largest Gemini models.
Does this mean that we're not seeing any slowdown on the scaling pre-training side?
You're not feeling it at all? Because there was for a while in the industry,
people talking about pre-training is slowing down. Now let's focus on RL. Let's focus on
thinking time. You're not seeing that at all.
We're not seeing that from the point of view of chip design or system design or lack of capacity or any
of that. And then what about the underlying data? Are you seeing more
an effective use of synthetic data? We are seeing, I mean, I'll give you two or three examples of things we
are seeing. Historically, a lot of the data that was fed into models was unstructured data like text,
audio, video, files, etc. Those continue to grow. But the reality of those is like there are many
elements in an enterprise context which make them actually really simple to deal with. When you ask a
question to an agent and you have the agent respond and tell you, tell me the citation of where did you
derive this answer from? It's easy if it's in a document because you can just show a link to that document.
Now, just imagine you ask the model a question, tell me how much inventory we'll need to meet demand for
this product. That is going to translate to a query on a system like an SAP system or some kind of
supply chain system. That's dynamically going against a set of tables. So first being accurate on
decomposing that query into which table is it getting it from and showing the response like where is the
citation? Like how do you get this? How do I know the answer that you gave me is correct is a much more
complicated problem. And so because of the work we do in enterprise, we're able to feed Gemini a lot more
cycles into our, you know, trajectory optimization harness with structured data, complex things like
complex fields. Have you ever seen a, you know, when you talk about computer use in a browser use, if you
ever see an enterprise application with a thousand fields, drop-down lists, et cetera, there's no consumer
app that would ever have that complexity. Yeah. So being in this space also allows us to teach
our Gemini system some of those things and put it into the harness.
Let's continue on harnesses and agentic coding in general. I've been doing a lot of coding myself.
There was kind of a viral tweet that went around about somebody who had a friend at Google who
basically said Google isn't on the frontier of agentic coding internally. What's your take on that?
How has Google adopted agentic coding? And especially again, I have to bring up Anthropic,
the rate at which their shipping is incredible. How is Google adopting the frontier of agentic coding today?
We have a lot of engineers using JetSki, which is our internal coding harness. And that feedback has been
going directly to DeepMind in the, you know, that reinforcement loop. And it's improving quality of
Gemini for coding every day. And we have a lot of people in my organization using it.
One thing I've noticed, I'm more productive than ever. I'm shipping so fast. I'm having so much fun doing it.
I'm not reviewing every line of code. Actually, I'm reviewing very few lines of code. But Google
can't do that. I have little toy projects. Google, you have high stakes projects and services and
products that you're serving. How can you both be on the frontier of agentic coding and be producing
so many lines of code, but also making sure that you're maintaining that quality, also make sure that
you are actually reviewing every single line of code that gets deployed?
So when we talk about software engineering productivity, we look at it slightly differently
than it's reported externally. So if you work in a company that builds products like Google does,
the reality is that there are two or three examples of things that you find that are really important.
Like a senior engineer writes much more compact code than a junior engineer.
So we don't count how many lines of code as a measure, because that's generally, you know,
a weaker engineer writes a lot more code to do the same tasks that a senior engineer does.
It's kind of a cliche, right? Over the years, that's don't count lines of code.
But I think now more than ever, it's just the shipping speed overall.
Yeah. So it's how much functions do we add? That's important.
Yeah.
The second thing, we've always had a tradition at Google that when you go to check in code,
you need peer review. Typically, the peer review is done by senior managers, right? And they become
the bottleneck. So we've introduced and people are using Gemini. And we, for example, recently in cloud,
introduced it to scan for security vulnerabilities in code. So it's not just that the tool is being used to
generate code. We're also using it to inspect code. And that helps us get when the senior engineers come
in for the review, a bunch of free work has been done. The third one is for the long term, in any real
software company, the bulk of the time of the engineers where they find doing less productive work is
debugging issues. So we built a version of Gemini. And one of the things we're going to show next week is,
you know, what's the most complex computer in the world? The most complex computer in the world is a cloud.
It makes a PC look like a toy. And so we've taken all of our cloud and exposed us as tools to the model.
And so now we're using Gemini to troubleshoot incidents happening. And so that's also helped us
improve the speed with which people can function, and in turn, improve the quality of the model itself.
So there's a number of dimensions that through which we look at the issue.
But as productivity increases, and you're shipping more features more quickly, I know lines of code is not
the measurement, but it's certainly an output of this increased velocity.
There comes a point where you just cannot review every single line of code.
And then I think kind of if you think about abstracting and going beyond that, there's a point at which
humans are understanding the actual code less and less over time, especially as you mentioned, if you're using AI to review the code, to debug.
So if you're having AI create code, AI review code, are we losing the core understanding of code and the functionality being deployed?
That's a risk that we have to manage as an industry. People talk about, I'm going to give you a prompt,
and the prompt is going to generate a block code. And you don't need to understand the code because you understand the prompt.
In reality, for a complex system, the prompt will not explain all the potential behavior of the system, right?
Yeah.
And so for example, how do you deal with exceptions? And so that's something that I think every time you find
this one area, like some time ago, people said, you won't need all these soft engineers.
And then along comes the model and finds a lot of security vulnerabilities. And just when we need a ton
of software engineers to work with models, like we're introducing a version of our model that can
actually fix bugs or fix security vulnerabilities specifically. But you still need a human to use the
tool and focus on it. Sometimes the industry over rotates. And so you say you don't need anybody just when
you need it. And so we take a much longer term view of things. And so we're constantly looking at, for
instance, do you need a supervisor model to look at code in a different way to actually review the code?
And that's why when I said we still do peer review of the code and we're helping our senior engineers
use the tool to use the tool to do the reviews. And then the question comes, will the tool be self-aware
enough? If it generated the code, will it find an issue with code that it generated? Because it's not
self-aware of certain patterns. That's something we're looking at approaches to solve. And so
our goal has always been to make sure we have the best model is to apply it at scale. And in my team
alone, we have thousands of people using it every single day. I mean, if you walk just over there to
the campus, you can see people like six different windows open, one in which they're coding, one in
which they're compiling, one in which they're, you know, deploying and testing, and another one where
they've got a background job running to run code review. I mean, that the whole, there's a lot of people
using the jet ski tool harness. And it's part of just evolving how work is getting done.
You touched on cybersecurity. Let's finish on that.
Anthropic decided the mythos model was too advanced in the cybersecurity capabilities to release publicly,
at least not yet. For Google, how do you think about that? What was your reaction? And then also,
is there some line in the sand, some benchmark that you think, or you would determine,
Gemini is no longer safe to release publicly?
We're working through that. And what would that line be? But our, you know, our issue has been,
so if mythos finds a set of issues, what percentage of those issues could be found with an open source
model? And the reason I mentioned open source model is, no matter how much you defend, and you can say,
well, I'll make sure close those models don't fall in adversary's hands, open source models for sure are
going to fall into adversary's hands. And they're just getting better.
And they're getting better.
Yeah.
So sooner or later, some part of this, it may not be all of the patterns, but some part of it can be
detected. So what should you do in response? And we are unique because we're a hyperscaler,
we're a model provider, and we also have a cybersecurity organization, both our Mandiant team and WIS. So we've
done three practical things. If people are going to find issues using a model, you need to have a model help
fix issues because they're going to find them way faster than humans can fix. So you need a model to
help fix. And so we're working on something there. Second, if they're going to find issues with models,
they're going to cause use the model and computer use to launch a large scale attack.
And so to defend that using, like, I'll red team my system once a month is not going to be sufficient.
So introducing agents that can do continuous red teaming and agents that can actually help fix.
Like, for example, it's one thing to fix the code. It's the second thing to find all the places the old
code was running and remove it and then deploy the new code that's been patched and updated, right?
So that's the second piece. And the third piece is there's so much code out there. What do I start with?
So again, that's another thing where we built tools to help people identify and prioritize what.
Is this an argument for or against open source software? Not models, but software.
If you're open source, all your code is out there. It is ripe for models to go look at it, find
vulnerabilities and exploit them. Closed source, you don't have that problem. But on the other hand, open source
is going to get hardened much more quickly. What is your take on that? Is that an argument for or against?
No, we as Google use a ton of open source and we contribute a ton of open source.
We're going to help the open source community using our tools to actually go fix these things.
I'm just pointing out the reality of where things are is that adversaries are going to use the model
and the first place they're going to try and scan is popular open source libraries because that gives
them the maximum surface area to try and attack. And so those are all elements where we think it's
important to go and address and fix and we're in process with the rest of the industry.
Thomas, last question for you. What keeps you up at night?
We, you know, we're balancing so many things, making sure we have to one part of your discussion,
do we have right-term, long-term plans for capital infrastructure, for data centers, networks,
enough of those lovely TPUs to go around? Second, are we constantly pushing the domain problems,
the important problems? Three years ago when we said we should solve the problem of as AI gets better,
cyber is going to be definitely an area that's affected. And when we made the offer to buy Wiz,
people ask like, why would you guys be doing that? When we look at our Gemini Enterprise platform,
just to give you an example, between January and now, our token count has jumped from 10 billion a minute
to 16 billion a minute. And the number of enterprise users of Gemini Enterprise has jumped by 40% sequentially.
So we're always looking at solving the right problems for customers and users. And that's always the focus for us.
And as long as we keep pushing aggressively and solving those problems and staying ahead of the market,
when the technology is evolving so quickly that when something happens, you've got to have solutions
before that occurs to the most part. And our teams have done an amazing job and we're super proud of
what they've done and looking forward to the event. Thomas, thank you so much. I really appreciate it.