The markets to a church with a casino attached and people can move between the church and casino and I would say there are more people in the church and more people in the casino, but the casino has gotten very...
We are sitting down right now with Warren Buffett, the chairman of Berkshire Hathaway, who for the first time in 60 years has been watching all of this from the audience instead of being on stage.
And, you know, last year at this time, Warren, you surprised everyone with the announcement that you were stepping down as CEO. Fast forward a year and here we are.
What do you think? Well, I think it's all working. It's all working. It isn't our ideal surrounding area or environment, I should say, in terms of deploying cash for Berkshire.
But in terms of how we've got the right management, we've got the right arrangement, and, you know, we can pick our spots and nobody can tell us what to do exactly, and so sometimes we're doing nothing.
But other times we get quite active, I mean.
You know, Ajit spent some time on the stage today talking about how one of his keys is to do nothing when it comes to insurance, when it comes to writing insurance, which is the same thing that you have always talked about with whether to invest or not.
Yeah. The world is full of people that are offering you things to do, and then the question is to find one that, you know, makes sense.
And there may be 20 out there that makes sense that you don't understand it, and you just leave them alone.
You said that the world or the surrounding environment is not ideal, and I guess that points to the idea that there's almost $400 billion in cash on hand, although Greg took some pains to show it's really more like $380 billion in cash on hand.
But there's a lot of cash on hand, and you're still active in managing the portfolio, too, and looking at stocks.
You're looking around, and you don't see a lot that you want to invest in.
Yeah. Well, then we don't do anything.
I mean, we've been in—of the 60 years I've been in the business, you know, there's probably five of them are really juicy, you know, and I think it was Tom Watson Sr. of IBM that said—they asked him the reason why IBM had been so successful or something like that, and he said,
I'm smart at spots, and I stay around those spots, and that's the whole thing.
And IBM was in three different businesses, including time clocks and a couple—and two of the three turned out to be no good.
But—so they just focused on the one.
What is it when you look around that it's just prices are too high at this point?
I would imagine there are—Greg said this from the stage, too.
Yeah.
There are businesses that you like just not these prices.
Well, and I would say I understand fewer of the businesses as a percentage of the whole than I did 10 years ago.
I have not learned new industries for some years, you know, and—so I don't kid myself on that.
I'm not going to learn them.
I'm not going to have an edge on, you know, a whole bunch of younger people that have actually grown up with them, used the product, seen things.
But, well, as I mentioned, you know, you don't have to understand too many if they're like Apple.
But looking around, let's just get some macro thoughts on this, because I don't know that this is something that Greg is going to comment on, per se.
Just looking at the macro stock market environment, what does this feel like to you?
Does it feel expensive?
Does it feel like there are opportunities in some places?
It feels like, you know, I've compared it to the markets to a church with a casino attached, and people can move between the church and casino, and I would say there are more people in the church and more people in the casino, but the casino's gotten very attractive to people, you know.
If you're buying one-day options or selling them, I mean, that is—that's not investing, it's not speculating, it's gambling, you know.
Just totally.
There's nobody that can explain why they're buying an option for one day, unless they have maybe—maybe the fellow that, you know, made the $400 and some thousand from knowing when we were going into Venezuela.
I couldn't do it.
But, I mean, that's pretty—and the quantity of those things is just incredible.
So, we've never had people in a more gambling mood than now, but that doesn't mean that investing is terrible.
It does mean that prices for an awful lot of things will look very silly.
I mean, you know, they had a squeeze, and then—and AVIS, of all things.
Well, AVIS has been around for 50 years, but just this past week.
And we have lots more regulation and everything now, but people spend their time figuring out how to get around the rules rather than follow the rules.
So, that's just a challenge.
The type of investor you are, though, is—you laid it out yourself.
In the 60 years you've been doing this in the business, you've had maybe five juicy years.
I guess that means you're always looking for the next juicy year.
What do you think it would take to make a juicy year or a juicy opportunity for you?
It's a phone call in some cases.
You know, we bought a business last year.
It wasn't big enough to be meaningful, but we got a letter.
Bell Labs?
Yeah, Bell Labs.
And, you know, and sometimes there's more zeros attached to them than others, and we're big enough to handle anything,
and we can make decisions faster than anybody, and our word is good.
There's an awful lot of people that they're—when they—they're in the business of reselling something, or, you know, it's—and it's a lot better.
If you're a good salesperson, there's no reason to be selling vacuum cleaners or, you know, as we'll sell stock, you'll make way more money.
It's where the money is.
And there's—and there's—and there's more money around than ever.
But the—the best opportunities have probably come when the macro environment leads to panic.
That's the most likely—well, the most likely time to buy things is when nobody else will answer their phones.
You know, everybody else talks about their wonderful trading departments and everything.
Just try them out sometime when markets are collapsing.
They don't answer the phones.
Right.
And if they do, the bids are subject, and the offers are subject, and the spread is wide,
and then—and they'll use the information they get from you about what you want to do to go out and kill you some other way.
I mean, it's—it's really like going to a slaughterhouse.
I mean, you know, you don't feel like eating hot dogs for a while.
I guess what I'm trying to get at is, do you see the circumstances building up anywhere that could lead to a time like that again?
Any sort of panic in the market?
Sure.
Where do you see them?
Well, if you saw them, they wouldn't happen.
Okay.
I mean, you've got all kinds—you don't worry about what—what people are talking about can happen.
It's—it's something that comes out of the blue, huh?
But something will come out of the blue.
Yeah.
I mean, a nuclear bomb can come out of the blue.
You know.
Well, let's knock on wood on that.
Well, it doesn't do any good to knock on wood.
That's—that's the point.
You know, it was the archduke getting shot, you know, in 1914 or something like that for World War I.
It just takes everything in life, and it—if it—if it's something people are talking about and thinking about, it's not going to happen.
Yeah.
But there are things that can happen out of the blue, and actually, that's particularly true to use that phraseology now,
because the things that can come out of the sky—you know—we don't know what can happen tomorrow.
I mean, I don't like to talk that way to people.
Whether it's you or anybody else, I mean, because, you know, whether it does you a lot of good to worry about that, I don't think it does do any good to worry about it.
I think it's—it's good to be cognizant of it, but the worrying about it is terrible, and I don't like to—I don't like to even cause that belief with people.
I don't like to go around—the end is coming, the end is coming, or something like that.
A friend told me yesterday, he's recently started using the phrase, "I don't fret, I don't worry," and that's probably a good way to go about life.
But let's talk about some of the issues that are out there right now.
You know, inflation is up.
That's an issue.
So how does Berkshire—how does Berkshire handle that with its businesses?
Well, we can't handle runaway inflation except not to be there in the way of it.
And if you look at the number of countries that have had runaway inflation since World War II, you know, in my lifetime, it's very large, you know.
And once you create that, it becomes a different world and, you know, in Germany, obviously, we experienced it after World War I, but there are dozens and dozens of countries that have experienced it.
And, of course, you have enough countries that are going bankrupt like six or seven times.
I mean, it's just amazing what people do in financial markets.
What about the inflation that we're dealing with right now, which is, you know, not excessive.
It's north of 3 percent at this point, but we're not even back at the levels we were during COVID.
We're looking at 8 to 9 percent.
So what about just higher energy prices, how that works through the line, and how you handle it?
Well, it came close before Volcker.
I mean, it was just, it was cash is trash, you know, and people were losing faith in the currency, and they felt they could borrow in 12 percent, earn 6 percent on farming or something like that.
And they had huge farmers in this state, Nebraska, collapse because they bought beyond the earning power, their interest rates beyond the earning power just because they felt that the dollar was going to disappear and the land wouldn't disappear.
It's tragic for many people, and if you're the best doctor in town or the best lawyer in town, you'll always make money under any choice.
You'll always make money under any choice.
I mean, the best TV personality.
I mean, it's, it's, but, uh, what not having faith in the money does to a country, it turns it into something else.
Yeah.
And I, you know, I've always hoped that, you know, the U.S. never does it, but we are not immune from it happening.
Yeah.
Uh, we have a lot of control over whether rates may go up a half a point or down a half a point, but we may have less control over whether they go up 50 points.
You've long been, um, a supporter of Jay Powell's.
Exactly.
He had his last FOMC meeting as chairman, uh, just this last week.
He did say that he's going to be sticking around, staying on the Fed, staying in that position, um, for the foreseeable future, in part because of, uh, the threats that he's faced.
Um, I'll feel better when he's there, uh, than when he's not.
I mean, it, uh, it, uh, no, I just, I felt better when Volcker was there, but you, it's, economists aren't the best at this sort of thing either.
I read any old economics book from 1950 or 1970 that was, that, uh, Paul Samuelson, who was a terrific guy and smart as hell, uh, he had the standard textbook for 25 years.
And if you looked up, you know, zero interest rates and year after year after year, it was a 900-page book and it wasn't an entry for it, you know, I mean, it was the most important economic development, I mean, in terms of the impact it would have and everything during the lifetime of the students reading it.
But, uh, uh, uh, it's what you don't think of that does all the damage.
Let's talk a little bit about CEOs, um, in some of the Berkshire holdings.
You mentioned Apple's, uh, Tim Cook and just the phenomenal job you think he's done.
Incredible.
Uh, he's not the only one of your major holding CEOs who stepped down.
James Quincy recently stepped down from Coca-Cola too.
And we just spoke with Vicki Holub who announced that she is, uh, retiring and stepping down from that position at Occidental.
Uh, part of what Greg's talked about is how stable that portfolio is and, and these holdings are companies that he knows and managers that he, that he knows.
There's going to be some new managers in some of those major holdings coming in.
Is that a problem?
Well, it was certainly a problem with Coca-Cola there for a good many years when I was around the company.
I mean, yeah, sure, it's, it's, uh, and you have the most problems with, with, with a really good company because it'll, it'll, it'll, it'll continue.
I mean, if you're selling some product that people are buying every day, you know, you can make the wrong decision for a long time.
Uh, uh, uh, but that's one of the problems with investing that, uh, uh, uh, Tim Cook, I, I, I felt was very, very good from the start.
And, and our, most of our managers, uh, are very good at the smaller problems.
Like, but they can't anticipate the, the overwhelming problems.
So that's, that's, that's, that's, uh, my job or now Greg's job.
Do you feel good about those holdings still?
Have you met any of the new managers of those businesses?
I haven't met the old managers.
Of the new businesses, of the new CEOs that are coming in, Tim Cook's replacement, you know, Enrique at Coca-Cola.
I certainly met the people at, at, at the labs that we've, you know, and, you know, and obviously I met Vicky, we made the deal.
And so I, I enjoy meeting with people.
And, uh, uh, uh, but you can make mistakes with people.
I mean, look at the divorce rate, you know, that's, that's, that's more important than whether you got the right CEO or anything else.
And yet, and yet, and now you've got years of trial, I mean, back when I was young, yeah, I mean, you had to make the decision, you know, or you didn't have to make the decision, you know, or you didn't have to make a decision, good many people made the decision when they were 20 or 21.
To get married.
Yeah, as they got married, then.
Now they, they, they spend five years, they still make the same mistakes.
So you think we're getting worse at our judgment?
Well, I don't know.
And maybe the people behave differently before the marriage and after, who knows?
Yeah.
Exactly.
I would say that almost everybody feels either their marriage is better or worse than they anticipated a month after they were married.
But I don't know which.
Warren, let's talk a little bit about deep fakes, because the deep fake Warren that popped up early in this session was pretty good.
They had somebody standing up, you know, Greg was joking about it, but, you know, the first, the first question went to a guy from Warren up in the rafters who lives in Omaha.
You've been concerned about some of these AI deep fakes and what that means for the world.
Yeah, I would, I would be concerned if everybody was, well, actually the worst thing would be that a really good imitator of any president that came along.
I mean, just imagine, well, yeah, we had that famous thing before, way back in New Jersey where the, the Martians coming and everything like that.
Oh, War of the Worlds, with Orson Welles.
What you, what you, what you can do, uh, well, if you're convinced about people the plunge of money for it, they shouldn't, you shouldn't be borrowing it.
I mean, uh, it's, it's scary.
It's, it's, it's particularly scary when you have nine countries or so with the nuclear weapons and, and people working on it and something even more.
We haven't dealt with this, but we don't know what's going to happen.
Let's circle back to Berkshire and the Berkshire of today.
Um, I think I was speaking with you yesterday or the day before and we were talking a little bit about Greg Abel and what a nice guy he is.
He's a terrific guy.
You said something interesting to me, though, um, about how you picked him and it wasn't because he was a nice guy.
Why did you pick him?
Well, he's very, very, very smart about businesses.
Incidentally, he's getting his Canadian, I mean, he's getting his American citizenship here very soon.
And he was going over with me all the things he had to learn about.
And I've actually spent a little time in the past with groups of individuals.
Of course, my wife did it until became an American citizenship, an American citizen.
And the things they have to learn about the Constitution and all these, and they're usually so proud when they become American citizens.
And I think I, I think I was detecting Greg even, I mean, you know, as successful he's been and everything else, I mean, he is, it means something to him to become an American citizen.
And, uh, you know, he sits there with his young son, you know, and his son knows more about some of the answers to the questions, you know, than he may get asked or something about becoming a citizen.
It's, it's really interesting.
And where else does that happen in the world?
I mean, what people, you know, that America's special and, and, uh, it's a miracle, uh, what America's accomplished.
I mean, it's just an absolute miracle.
And yet the miracle of the division of the, of, of, of the output and everything is about as inequitable as it you could come up with,
while at the same time, it's got these great attractions.
There is some secret sauce.
I've never been able to define it precisely, but, uh, uh, when you run a country for 200 and some years and people want to come here every year,
I mean, there's, there's really something about it.
And what Greg Abel is very, you know, is looking forward to becoming an American citizen that means something to him.
And you can't buy that any place.
They're packaging or, you know, it won't work for a Madison Avenue approach, approach, you know, you know, be an American or something like that.
But that, that, that, that feeling just goes, I'm, in my 95 years, I've, I've seen it, you know, it's time after time.
So I felt, I felt good when I, Greg just volunteered that in the last day or two to me, that he was, he was up there for his final exams here for becoming a citizen.
I didn't realize he wasn't a dual citizen already.
I knew he was Canadian, but I thought he had dual citizenship.
He doesn't have a full, whatever the complete citizenship requirement is.
And, and you can say, why does he care?
I mean, he's gotten along fine without it here and everything.
He still wants to be a citizen.
Yeah.
250 years, we're celebrating our 250th anniversary.
Um, you pointed out that you've been around for 95 of them.
You think we have the special sauce that that will continue in this country?
Or what do we need to do to preserve that and make sure that it does continue?
We've got a special sauce.
It's such a good secret that I don't know what exactly it is, but I do know this, that anybody that has a choice, which used to be born in America, I mean, you know, you can pick some very small little country, they're very happy that they're, but is this, is there any other country that everybody's for a couple hundred years has wanted to emigrate to?
I MEAN, IT -- AND IT ATTRACTS SOME TERRIBLE PEOPLE, YOU KNOW, TOO, BUT -- BUT IT WORKED.
AND THEY HAD THE MAFIAS FROM THE DIFFERENT GROUPS, NOT JUST THE ITALIAN MAFIA, BUT -- I MEAN, IT WASN'T THAT THEY WERE ALL -- WE HAD SOME SYSTEM FOR PICKING OUT THE WONDERFUL PEOPLE FROM SOME OTHER COUNTRIES, BUT IT HAS -- IT HAS WORKED.
BUT IT'S WORKED -- THE EXTREMES TO WHICH IT WORKS DON'T SEEM TO BELONG TO THAT KIND OF A SOCIETY, I MEAN, IF YOU WERE DRAWING UP DREAMS FOR THE IDEAL SOCIETY, AND YOU WOULD HAVE THIS KIND OF GDP PER CAP AND EVERYTHING, YOU WOULDN'T DESIGN -- YOU WOULDN'T DESIGN THE -- YOU WOULDN'T DESIGN THE INHERENCE OF LAWS, YOU WOULDN'T -- I MEAN, YOU WOULD JUST DO ALL KINDS OF THINGS DIFFERENTLY, BUT SOMEHOW IT'S WORKED.
BUT THAT DOESN'T MEAN THAT WE CAN'T DO BETTER.
I MEAN, AT ALL.
I WANT TO THANK YOU FOR TAKING THIS TIME TO SIT DOWN WITH US TODAY.
WARREN BUFFETT, THE CHAIRMAN OF BERKSHIRE HATHOWAY.
I WANT TO THANK YOU FOR TAKING THIS TIME TO SIT DOWN WITH US TODAY.
WARREN BUFFETT, THE CHAIRMAN OF BERKSHIRE HATHOWAY.